 
 
 

 

www.keller.co.uk 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 - Keller Limited  
 
 
Reporting Requirements 
 
Gender pay gap reporting requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory 
calculations  every  year  showing  how  large  the  pay  gap  is  between  their  male  and  female 
employees. The UK Government GPG regulations have four key requirements: 
 
1.  Reporting the differences in mean and median pay between men and women calculated on 

the basis of equivalent hourly pay rates;  

2.  Reporting the distribution of men and women between pay band quartiles, calculated using 

the range of hourly pay rates;  

3.  Reporting the differences in mean and median bonus pay between men and women; and  
4.  Reporting the proportion of men and women receiving bonus pay in a year.  
 
The results detailed here are the results for Keller Limited.  
 
 
Understanding the Gap and Actions 
 
Keller Limited’s gender pay gap is typical of our sector.  As a geotechnical engineering business 
there  are  fewer  women  than  men  entering  the  company  at  graduate  level  and  even  less  so 
working on our sites.  In April 2017, women made up 9% of the Keller workforce but only 4% 
were in the top pay quartile.  However, approximately 60% of our employees are site operatives 
working  on  construction  sites,  and  in  this  segment,  in  particular,  women  are  very  poorly 
represented. 
 
In  general  the  construction  sector  suffers  from  female  under-representation,  but  there  are  a 
number of actions that we are taking to attract and retain more women in the industry. 
 
Women in Construction 
 
Through one of our female engineer “champions”, we subscribe to and engage with the not-for-
profit  organisation,  Women  in  Construction.    This  helps  raise  awareness  and  shares  best 
practice amongst the various businesses that contribute.  Some of our female professionals act 
as  advocates  for  the  industry  and  give  encouragement  to  younger  women  who  may  be 
considering a career in geotechnics. 
 
Gender pay parity 
 
Annually  we  check that women  in  similar roles to men are  paid equally.   The  assessment  is 
carried out by the Human Resources department and shared at board level. 
 
 
 
Keller  
Oxford Road 
Ryton-on-Dunsmore 
Coventry 
CV8 3EG 
t: +44 (0)2476 511266  
f: +44 (0)2476 305230 
 
A trading division of Keller  Limited registered in England No. 485692.  VAT No. 544 9250 34.  Registered Office: Oxford Road, Ryton-on-Dunsmore, Coventry. CV8 3EG. 

Unconscious Bias 
 
We regularly carry out recruitment training and will repeat diversity training in particular for all 
management level positions during 2018.  
 
Employer Attractiveness 
 
We work with several universities, particularly those offering an MSc in geotechnical engineering 
to attract young professionals into the sector.  As the demographic changes this provides the 
opportunity for the business to attract more female engineers. 
 
In  summary,  Keller  seeks  to  attract  more  women  and  understands  that  by  not  doing  so  it 
deprives  itself  from  an  obvious  pool  of  talent.    We  will  continue  to  work  to  ensure  that  the 
company is attractive  to all.  Gender pay equality is  one of our business values as well as a 
regulatory imperative.  
 
 
At a Glance  
 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

29% 

17% 

52% 

48% 

The proportion of males / females in each 
quartile pay band is as follows: 

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus: 

 

 

 Pay Quartile  

Female 

Upper 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower 

4% 

6% 

9% 

16% 

Male 

96% 

94% 

91% 

84% 

Male  

93% 

Female  

86% 

 
[Note:  Site based personnel who are predominantly male receive a wage and a weekly 
bonus, whilst staff receive a salary and an annual bonus after a qualifying period.] 

 

