Locale : Global (English)   Follow us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Google + YouTube Instagram X Views News Contact Slavery and human trafficking statement Legal Cookies Create document  Page added  Remove page  Add page Review document / Page Added Collected Pages  Create Home  / 2017  / Mott MacDonald reports its UK gender pay gap under government’s new regulations Release 02 November 2017 Mott MacDonald reports its UK gender pay gap under government’s new regulations       Mott MacDonald has published its gender pay gap information under the regulations introduced by the UK government which came into force earlier this year. Companies with 250 or more employees are now required to publish their gender pay and bonus gaps, along with other prescribed information, in a publicly accessible manner by 4 April 2018. Under the methodology set out in the regulations, Mott MacDonald’s median gender pay gap is 20% and its mean gender pay gap is 21%. The company’s median gender bonus gap is 44% and its mean gender bonus gap is 49%. James Harris, Mott MacDonald's UK and Europe region managing director, said: “For many years the engineering industry struggled to recruit and retain enough women engineers and like many other organisations of our kind, our gender pay gap is largely a result of this, as a higher proportion of men now hold the most senior, higher paid positions. While we’re confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the same jobs across our UK business, we recognise the need to address the gender pay gap and are resolute in doing so.” Mott MacDonald firmly believes that diverse teams enable it to deliver the best outcomes for its clients and is proactively working to tackle underrepresentation of women. Its equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) initiative has received numerous industry awards and the company is recognised as a leader in this area. In May this year, the consultancy announced a series of goals to embed, sustain and further improve diversity amongst its employees. Improvement aims have also been agreed based on current diversity monitoring data for sexual orientation, gender identity and disability. Jennifer Ross, Mott MacDonald's UK and Europe human resources manager, said: “We take this matter very seriously and fully support the UK government’s move to address the gender pay gap. We’re completely focused on tackling the underlying causes of our gender pay gap in a number of ways, including a number of initiatives such as delivery of Skills4UK career development workshops for female colleagues in the management pipeline. This will help to create female leaders who can progress to higher levels in the business, with over 120 colleagues already completing the programme this year.” “We have rolled out unconscious bias training and have embedded this training into our global induction program. We have also established our Advancing Gender network led by champions who are provided with time, budget and a board-level executive sponsor to promote gender equality in the company. Informing our next steps and focusing on ongoing improvement, we continue to work with Women in Science and Engineering and are completing Business in the Community’s gender and race equality benchmarks with recommendations embedded into our 2018 EDI Action Plan.” For more information contact: Tom Smith tom.smith@mottmac.com +44 (0)20 8774 2205 Lee Lodge lee.lodge@mottmac.com +44 (0)20 8774 2040 Sandra Zugaj sandra.zugaj@mottmac.com +44 (0)20 8774 2250 Filter Contact Twitter LinkedIn Facebook Instagram YouTube Google+ © 2018 Mott MacDonald Slavery and human trafficking statement Legal Cookies × Choose how you'd like to visit mottmac.com