2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

The Embark Group began its journey in 2013. Since that time, we have 
undertaken several acquisition exercises and our Group is now seven 
companies strong, supporting our ambition to be the UK’s leading digital 
retirement solutions provider. 

2017 was a year that began our consolidation phase as a Group. From an 
employee perspective, we held our first Group employee survey and more 
latterly our first Group annual bonus and salary review process.  A key 
objective in this consolidation phase is to support growth and opportunity for 
all of our employees, regardless of the company they sit in locally. It 
therefore makes sense for us to report as a Group rather than individual 
smaller companies.  

Whilst the vast majority of our companies are not legally required to report, 
to demonstrate our commitment to Gender and Pay equality we have chosen 
to publish our Group findings voluntarily. 

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

We believe in transparency and meritocracy; we want to give all of our people the 
opportunity to be the best they can be, sharing in our future success. 

GENDER PAY AND BONUS GAP

OUR ANALYSIS

Gender pay gap

Gender bonus gap

mean

27%

68%

median

22%

33%

The table shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly 
rates of pay as at the snapshot date (5 April 2017). It also captures the mean and 
median differences between bonuses awarded to men and women in the year up 
to 5 April 2017. 

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES AWARDED A BONUS 

31%

19%

69%

81%

Received a bonus

Did not receive a bonus

The results reflect our confidence that our gender pay gap is not as a result of 
any systemic issue. When analysing our gap there are two core aspects that we 
feel have historically driven this: 

1. Sales teams. A higher proportion of male than female employees worked in 
our sales departments at the snapshot date. These roles are of a limited number 
and attract a risk-based incentive commission. They have driven our mean bonus 
gap significantly. 

Away from the sales schemes, as a Group we operate on a discretionary bonus 
scheme basis and our figures show that substantially more female than male 
employees were awarded bonuses in the year up to 5 April 2017. Our 
discretionary bonus scheme is based firmly around the core principles of 
performance, meritocracy and competence. We believe this to be gender neutral. 

When Sales colleagues are stripped out of the figures, the mean gap drops from 
68% to 31% and the median gap stays static at 33%. Whilst in many ways 
reassuring for the overall distribution of bonuses, the figures highlight the 
demographic disproportion around male employees entering sales roles. Steps 
have been taken to rebalance this during 2017 through a pipeline strategy. 

2. Executive and management teams. As an independent company, several of 
our main shareholders are Executives of the Group. As the Group has grown, the 
diversity in this population has changed positively with 50% of our MDs being 
female during 2017 and 20% of our Executive Management Team. We have also 
hired a number of female employees in to key senior manager roles throughout 
2017. We therefore look forward to seeing a positive increase in our 2018 upper 
quartile split of the population toward 50%.

PAY QUARTILES
The charts below illustrate our gender distribution across four equally sized 
quartiles. The quartile distribution demonstrates a clear parity across the 
majority of our Group.

Upper Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

61%

60%

10.1%
pay gap

2.1%
pay gap

40%

39%

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

53%

37%

2.3%
pay gap

1.9%
pay gap

47%

63%

OUR SECTOR
As many of our direct competitors are smaller than the required 250 
headcount for reporting requirements, we have used the broader 
Financial Services sector as our benchmark. The financial services 
sector has one of the biggest pay gaps across all sectors at 35%1. 
Focusing in on the pensions sector, it is difficult to establish clear 
benchmarks as the data is often unreliable or unavailable2. 

Whilst we are happy to be well below the sector average and 
believe it reflects the demographics of our Group, we accept we 
have room for development. As we evolve our business we need to 
ensure equality of opportunity is afforded to all of our employees, 
now and in the future. 

OUR COMMITMENT
Whilst we may be tracking below the sector indicative pay gap, we 
are not complacent. This year we have undertaken our first Group-
wide pay review and associated demographic analysis to ensure we 
focus on areas of disparity and reward true performance. 

As we continue to develop and build our people strategy we fully 
commit to exploring and understanding our workforce demographic 
in greater detail, focusing on how we offer opportunity, support and 
development to all. 

We will do this by: 
• Reviewing our benefits package
• Reviewing our policies and processes that support flexible 

working and help develop our talent pipeline

1,2 Source: Office of National Statistics

•

•

Ensuring we skill managers to develop their teams in diverse and 
challenging ways
Introducing technology that makes opportunity and learning more 
accessible across the full Group. 

Work is already underway in many of these areas and we look forward 
to sharing milestones with our employees as we develop.

STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
Under the regulations we are required to report our gender pay gap 
for each of our legal employing entities with more than 250 
employees, as at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. At that date 
Rowanmoor Executive Pensions Limited (REPL) was a qualifying 
company. REPL consisted of employees focused on our executive 
pensions business as well as our consultancy business at the time. 

Gender pay gap

Gender bonus gap

Proportion of men and women 
receiving bonus payments

mean

31%

81%

male

90%

median

25%

32%

female

98%

D E C LA R A TI ON :
I hereby confirm the Embark Group’s  gender 
pay gap calculations are accurate and meet 
the requirements of the regulations. 

Kay Smith
Group HR Director
29 March 2018

