 

 

KEEP YOUR WORLD WORKING 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR PUBLIC USE 
AUTHOR: BYBOX FIELD SUPPORT Ltd 
DATE: 04.04.2018 
VERSION 1.0 

 

 

 

 

www.bybox.com 

Issued date: 04TH April 2018 
Person responsible for employer’s report: Stuart Miller (CEO) 
Address: Winchester House, Oxford Science Park, Oxford, OX4 4GE 
Nature of business (SIC):  

  52103 - Operation of warehousing and storage facilities for land transport activities  
  77390 - Renting and leasing of other machinery, equipment and tangible goods not 

elsewhere classified  

A WORD FROM OUR CEO: 

At ByBox, we recognise the importance of equality, placing great value on 
creating a diverse and inclusive workforce across the whole business. Our 
approach to developing colleagues and providing an environment that 
recognises  each  one  of  them  for  their  skill,  expertise  and  outstanding 
performance is echoed in our results.   

Our colleagues are built into our framework and our three areas of corporate social responsibility. Not 
only is our pay gap minimal, in what is seen as a male dominated industry, colleagues are recognised 
through reward schemes and additional benefits such as training and flexible working.  

We are committed to a diverse workforce at all levels and dedicated to ensuring our pay gap remains 
fair, progressing colleagues through the business and further developing them along their journey 
with us. We will continue to address any gaps, as we have seen slight differences in our bonuses, and 
create a fun and fair organisation to be part of.  

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP? 
Gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the average pay of men and women – regardless of 
the nature of their work – across the same organisation, business sector, industry or the economy.  

This gap can be driven by the different number of men and women across all roles. It is important to 
note that it is different from an equal pay comparison, which is direct comparison of two people or 
groups of people carrying out the same, similar or equivalent work.  
DIFFERENCE IN HOURLY PAY: 
Women’s mean hourly rate is 1.2% higher than men’s 
In other words, when comparing mean hourly rates, women earn £1.01 for every £1 that men earn. 

 

Women’s median hourly rate is 1.5% higher than men’s 
In other words, when comparing median hourly rates, women earn £1.02 for every £1 that men earn. 
 

 

2 
 

PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN EACH PAY QUARTILE: 

Proportion of women in each pay quartile

90.00%
80.00%
70.00%
60.00%
50.00%
40.00%
30.00%
20.00%
10.00%
0.00%

Top Quartile (highest

paid)

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile (lowest

paid)

Women Men

 

WHO RECEIVED BONUS PAY: 

32.1% of women  

11.5% of men 

 

 

 
 DIFFERENCE IN BONUS PAY: 

Women’s mean bonus pay is 29.4% higher than men’s 

Women’s median bonus pay is 0.6% higher than men’s 

 

 

 

3 
 

 

ABOUT THIS REPORT: 
Our overall results are reported in accordance with stated Government requirements in relation to 
the number of employees, and therefore are for ByBox Field Support Limited business activities only. 
Whilst we collect and analyse the data related to other ByBox businesses, these are not included in 
the published figures because the number of employees is under the specified threshold.  

 

4 
 

