 

 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report  

 

March 2018 

 

Introduction 

The firm welcomes the opportunity to provide its report on the gender pay gap. The first section of this 

report focuses on our statutory obligations, the second section provides a further breakdown and 

analysis of the statutory data.  

 

The pay data is prepared as at 5 April 2017.  

 

 

Equal pay versus gender pay gap 

Equal Pay is the right to be paid the same level of pay for "like work", work rated as equivalent and work of 

equal value, whereas the gender pay gap is the difference in average pay and bonuses received by male 

and female employees within a workforce, irrespective of their role, responsibilities or seniority.  

 

The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 came into force on 6 April 2017. 

The Regulations require all employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations every 

year showing how large the pay gap is between male and female employees.  
 

 

March 2018 

 

Section 1 – Statutory employee data 

 

Pay and bonus gap – differences between men and women 

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment 

Mean 

Median 

21.1% 

44.0% 

37.5% 

49.7% 

 

Hourly pay 

Bonus 

 

Pay and bonus gap 

 

The mean is the average of all of the numbers in a data set. To calculate this, you add up all of the 

numbers and divide the result by how many numbers you are dealing with.  

 

The median is the numerical value which sits between the top 50% of the population and the bottom 

50%. To find the median, you list all of the values in descending order to find the number that sits in the 

middle. 

 

Pay quartiles 

 

              Lower quartile                            Lower middle quartile                     Upper middle quartile                            Upper quartile         

 

Pay quartiles 

 

These charts show the percentage of men and women in each of the pay  (salary plus bonus on an FTE 

basis) quartiles across the employee population.  
 
 
 

 

March 2018 

 

Section 2 – Non statutory breakdown and analysis  

 

Breakdown of results by role 

 

As well as reporting on the statutory gender pay gap we have also undertaken an analyses of the mean 

and median differences in pay and bonus by role. 
 
 

 

 

Mean gender pay gap 

Median gender pay gap 

Mean bonus pay gap 

Median bonus gender pay gap 

 

 

Statutory Disclosures 

 

 

 

Total 

Fee Earners 

Secretaries 

Business Services 

21.1% 

37.5% 

44.0% 

49.7% 

 

8% 

0% 

26% 

12% 

 

11% 

9% 

2% 

0% 

 

7% 

10% 

27% 

(15%) 

 

F 

M 

F 

M 

F 

M 

F 

M 

Proportion of females and males 

66.0% 

62.1% 

70% 

63% 

71% 

100% 

58% 

66% 

receiving bonus 

Proportion of females and males in 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

each quartile 

Upper quartile 

64.0% 

36.0% 

Upper middle quartile 

61.3% 

38.7% 

Lower middle quartile 

77.0% 

23.0% 

Lower quartile 

85.3% 

14.7% 

63% 

68% 

63% 

66% 

37% 

94% 

32% 

100% 

37% 

100% 

34% 

100% 

6% 

0% 

0% 

0% 

58% 

56% 

61% 

68% 

42% 

44% 

39% 

32% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

March 2018 

 

Analysis in brief 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  Our analysis found that our current gender pay gap is largely the result of the gender profile of 

certain roles within the firm, as observed by the gender imbalance in our lower and lower-middle 

quartiles. The majority of these roles are secretarial, 98.6% of our secretaries being female, and 

all of our secretaries are in the lower and lower-middle pay quartiles. If we calculate the gender 

pay gap without including our secretaries' data, the mean pay gap is 6%.  

 

  On more detailed analysis of our trainee and associate data (all levels of fee earner below 

partner) the picture is more balanced: the gender pay gap between such male and female fee 

earners reduces to -0.4% (i.e. it is marginally in favour of women).  

 

The Regulations also require that the value of any salary sacrifice is deducted from gross pay for 

the purposes of the pay calculations. This means that, for those employees who have chosen 

certain flexible benefits in place of part of their salary, the levels of salary which have been 

reported are in fact lower than is the case. Further, our analysis has revealed that more female 

than male employees take up salary sacrifice arrangements. In particular, 65% of those 

purchasing childcare vouchers (which are very tax efficient) are women and of those employees 

choosing to purchase additional holiday, 83% are women, while more men than women have 

chosen to sell holiday. Both have the effect of reducing women's pay for these purposes.  

  Notwithstanding that to do so exaggerates our gender pay gap, the firm will continue to offer 

flexible benefits. We regularly receive feedback from members of the firm supporting the 

availability of these benefits.  

 

The proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment is broadly equal, with a slightly 

higher percentage of women being awarded one. However, (like many firms and other 

organisations) our bonus payments are pro-rated in accordance with the number of hours worked 

and based on a percentage of base salary. The Regulations require that the bonus gap is 

calculated on the actual figures received rather than on a full-time equivalent (FTE) basis.  

  Women make up a large percentage of the lower and lower-middle pay quartiles, and as result 

FTE bonus amounts are lower. In addition, as significantly more women work part time (currently 

92% of part time people (including partners) are female) again average female bonuses are lower 

than average male bonuses.  

The firm has no plans to reduce the availability of flexible working notwithstanding its impact on our gender 

bonus figures. We are proud to say that just under 30% of our staff work part-time, with many other 

additional flexible working practices also in place. 
 

 

March 2018 

 

Current initiatives and actions 

The firm is committed to improving gender equality and opportunities for career progression and we have 

already taken a number of steps which include: 

Diversity forum 

In the past year we have created the new role of Diversity and Inclusion Manager (D&I Manager) within 

HR. Our Head of Diversity and D&I Manager work with our Diversity Forum (made up of members from 

across the firm) to progress the firm's diversity strategy. The Forum undertakes projects and initiatives to 

improve the diversity of the talent we attract and to support an inclusive environment aiding retention. 

 

Flexible working  

We recognise the benefits flexible working can provide to our people, our clients and our business. We 

work to ensure that flexible and smart working is an integral part of our culture.  

 

Working parents network  

We have an active Working Parents network which meets regularly to share experiences and ideas and 

to provide mutual support. 

 

Mentoring  

The firm has a mentoring programme available to employees. 

 

Cityparents 

The firm has corporate membership of Cityparents, which is a group of over 10,000 members in London 

representing the legal, banking/finance, management consultancy, human resources and accountancy 

organisations. 

 

Parent transition coaching 

We also offer parent transition coaching to support and coach individuals through parental leave and 

return to work. 

 
 
Gender pay gap working party  
 

The firm has asked the Diversity Forum to form a working party that will specifically consider our gender pay 

gap. The working party will work closely with the HR department and will make recommendations to the 

Management Board. 

 

March 2018 

 
 

 
 

Simon Graham 
Practices Partner for the Management Board 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

We confirm the data in this report to be accurate. 
 
 
Anne-Marie Piper 
Senior Partner 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

About Us 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Farrer & Co is synonymous with the highest quality legal 
advice and service. 
 
We advise individuals, families, businesses, financial 
services, educational and not-for-profit organisations on 
every aspect of the law, wherever the need arises. From our 
offices in London we work with trusted professionals around 
the world to deliver a seamless international service. 
 
Our clients present us with complex and varied challenges. 
Whether that's a complicated family trust issue, a 
multinational corporate transaction, or an emerging threat to 
their reputation, they need clear thinkers who can advise on 
the best solutions, fast thinkers when speed is of the 
essence and agile thinkers who can produce a fresh 
approach to get the job done. That's why they choose us. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our clients value our in-depth knowledge, technical 
excellence and diversity of disciplines. But what really 
binds our long-standing relationships with them is our 
approach: personable, pragmatic, plain speaking and 
always steadfast in our values, which we hold dear. 
Values which mean we gain our clients' trust, always 
strive to do the right thing, and aim for the best results 
for them. 
 
Superb client service sits at the heart of everything 
we do. We are modern lawyers with timeless values. 

March 2018 

