Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

Introduction

Corestaff Services Limited (“Corestaff”) provides temporary recruitment / 
contingent workforce solutions predominantly to clients within the food 
processing and agricultural sector. 

We welcome the opportunity to publish its gender pay gap report, which has 
been taken from the pay details of the 346 colleagues we paid in the pay 
period within which the 5th April 2017 fell (referred to under the relevant 
regulations as the “snapshot date”).

Within the 346 staff covered by this report, just four are full-time permanent 
employees that work for Corestaff from our office in Spalding. The remaining 
342 colleagues paid within the relevant pay period are hourly paid temporary 
colleagues whose pay rates are ultimately set by the client organisations 
where they are  assigned to work. 

While we will always seek to ensure the pay rates our temporary colleagues 
receive remain in line with local market rates, and comply with the law, the 
vast majority are paid at or towards the national minimum / living wage and 
we  have little influence over the pay rates paid to most of the staff whose pay 
data has been used to generate this report. 

Notwithstanding this, as part of the Cordant Group, which recently announced 
it was transitioning to becoming a social enterprise, we are developing a good 
job strategy which will focus on how we can create and maximise a positive 
social impact.  As we develop these strategies and integrate them into our 
future business plans, we will also take into account our gender pay gap data, 
ensuring diversity and inclusion remains a key focus area. 

I confirm the information and data reported within this report and submitted 
via the Government Equalities Office gender pay gap reporting service is 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Ken Steers
Group Human Resources Director

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Understanding our gender pay gap report

How is the gender pay gap measured?
There are four key measures:

● Mean hourly pay and bonus pay gap
● Median hourly pay and bonus pay gap
●

Proportion of males / females that received a bonus in the 12 month 
period ending on the snapshot date
Proportion of males / females in each quartile pay band

●

How is the mean hourly pay gap calculated?
The mean pay gap is expressed as a percentage and shows the difference in 
the average hourly rate of pay between male and female colleagues.  This is 
calculated by adding up the hourly rates of pay for all females, and dividing 
this by the number of females, and doing the same calculation for men. The 
percentage is then calculated by taking the average hourly rate for females 
from the average hourly rate for males, and multiplying the result by 100.

How is the median hourly pay gap calculated?
Firstly, you rank all female employees in order of their hourly pay rate (highest 
to lowest). You then find the hourly rate of pay belonging to the female that is 
in the middle of the list. If there is an odd number of female colleagues in the 
list the middle person will be easy to find e.g. if 105 females then use the 
hourly pay rate for the female ranked at number 53. If there is an even 
number of female colleagues, then you find the middle two and calculate the 
average hourly rate of the two e.g. if 110 employees, you calculate the average 
hourly rate of pay for the female colleagues ranked 55 and 56 in the list. 

The same calculation is undertaken for male colleagues, with the median 
hourly pay gap expressed as a percentage by taking the median hourly pay 
rate for females from the median hourly pay rate for males and multiplying by 
100.

How is the mean and median bonus pay gap calculated?
The same as the mean and median hourly pay gaps (see above), but instead 
looking at the differences in the mean and median values in relation to the 
amount  of bonus paid in the 12 month period ending on the snapshot date to 
male and female colleagues. 

Understanding our gender pay gap report

What do the percentage pay gaps actually mean?

They effectively show how much more male colleagues earn in comparison to 
females in relation to average hourly rates of pay and average annual bonus 
payments, or vice versa. 

If the percentage gap is a positive number it means, on average,  our male 
colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of bonus payments than 
females. If the percentage gap is shown as a negative number, it means, on 
average, our female colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of 
bonus pay than their male colleagues.

Important Note

The gender pay gaps  look at comparing the pay data for all male and female 
colleagues regardless of their job role, so is not the same and should not be 
considered to show that an employer is breaching equal pay rights, which 
focus on ensuring male and female colleagues receive the same rate of pay for 
doing the same or broadly similar job role.

What are the quartile pay bands?
This is calculated by ranking all colleagues, regardless of their gender, from 
the colleague(s) with the highest hourly pay rate in the organisation to the 
colleague(s) with the lowest hourly pay rate.  

This list is then divided into four quarters, with as equal number of employees 
in each quartile as possible. 

The report then shows the proportion of males and females in each of the 
following pay quartiles:

● Upper 
● Upper middle
●
Lower middle
●
Lower  

Want to know more about gender pay gap reports?
If you would like to know more about gender pay gap reporting please visit 
www.acas.org.uk/genderpay

Our results for 2017

As outlined in the introduction, almost 
all those whose pay data is contained in 
this report are temporary workers that 
we supplied to work for our clients, 80% 
of which had an hourly pay rate of £7.50 
per hour. This explains why there is no 
median pay gap, as the median pay rate 
was £7.50 per hour for both male and 
female colleagues. 

The bonus data is skewed as there were 
just three employees in the data set 
that received a bonus, one of which was 
female, and two male, which therefore 
resulted in the average bonus pay being 
lower for male colleagues.  This, 
coupled with males representing 36% of 
the total workforce, has resulted in the 
data showing that male colleagues are 
more than three times more likely to 
receive a bonus. 

Measure

Mean hourly pay gap

Median hourly pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

% Gap

+2,3%

0.0%

-85.2%

-85.2%

