Unite the union

4 april 2018

Gender Pay Gap Report 

All employers with 250 or more employees are now
required by law to publish their gender pay gap each
year on their own and on the Government’s website. 

This is Unite the union’s gender pay gap report for
2018.  
   

ABOUT THIS REPORT

The report was prepared in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap
Information) Regulations 2017 and Equality Act 2010 (Speciﬁc Duties and Public
Authorities) Regulations 2017. Our report has been run on ﬁgures based on our
1216 employees and their pay based on the payroll ﬁgure of the union’s payroll at
05 April 2017.

2

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

Unite, proud to be an equal pay employer

By law, Unite is required to publish an annual gender pay gap report.  
We have complied with this requirement but have regarded this as an
opportunity to review our commitments to equality overall.

We are  the biggest union in Britain and Ireland, and a determined force
for working people.  

We have a positive story to tell about our commitment to equality. 
As an employer we lead the way in the trade union  movement:  we
employ women in half the posts at Assistant General
Secretary/Executive Oﬃcer level, half at Departmental Director level,
and 30% of our Regional Secretaries who run our 10 regions are women.  

Our political department is an all-female team. The  union pays its
employees equally using a transparent grading / salary structure.

As a trade union working hard for our membership we  continue to
support our members in the ﬁght for equal pay for work of equal value,
and we continue to work to end gender segregation in a number of the
industrial sectors where Unite organises such as transport,
manufacturing and construction.

3

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

Our Results

Our ﬁgures show that we have a gender pay gap between men and
women of, on average, 19.8%. 

There are historical reasons for this: we grew out of male-dominated
workplaces such as those in manufacturing, transport and energy; and,
the only pool from which we recruit oﬃcers into the union is from our
membership. Our membership is currently made up of 72% men and
28%  women.

Additionally, our workforce turnover rates are very low which is an
indication of a workforce that feels rewarded, but another factor in
sustaining occupational segregation.

These are the principal reasons why we have a gender distribution of
employees with signiﬁcantly more women in the administrative jobs
than we do men.  Our rates of pay for these jobs, however, are
signiﬁcantly above market rate.

£

Unite’s median gender pay gap is  29.6 percent.

29.6%

Unite’s mean gender pay gap is 19.8 percent.

19.8%
2

4

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

pay distribution per quartile

Females      Males
71.8%               28.2%

Females      Males
65.6%              34.4%

Males         Females
64.9%               35.1%

Males         Females
73.8%               26.2%

A

B

C

D

e
l
i
t
r
a
u
q
y
a
p

 

Includes all employees whose 

standard hourly rate places them at or

below the lower quartile

Includes all employees whose 
standard hourly rate places them
above the lower quartile but at or

below the median

Includes all employees whose 
standard hourly rate places them

above the median but at or below the

upper quartile

Includes all employees whose 

standard rate places them above the

upper quartile

5

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

taking positive action

However, the gender pay gap measurement can never tell the whole
story of our union as an employer committed to equality:

The journey to workplace equality is a continuous one.

paternity leave, and assistance with childcare costs;

of their members who work for the union: our employees; 

•   Our job evaluation programme was equality proofed;
•   We recognise two unions who negotiate pay and conditions on behalf
•   We oﬀer much above the statutory minimum for maternity and
•   We do not pay bonuses or increments which have the eﬀect of
•   We are embarking on a programme of union-wide digital and skills
•   Our oﬃcer recruitment policy has been adapted to positively

widening the pay gap;

training to open new doors to staﬀ; 

encourage more women and BAEM members to apply, and succeed.

At Unite, we are taking all proportionate steps to tackle gender
occupational segregation.  For example, we encourage women to work
and take up apprenticeships in currently male-dominated sectors such as
manufacturing, transport and construction. We support the election of
union equality representatives and union equality education courses for
all representatives.

This in turn helps to support Unite women members to become
representatives and oﬃcers of the union.  Women members are further
supported to do so through a major Unite National Women’s Week which
includes our Women in Leadership course.

Through the structures of Unite Regional and National Women’s
Committees and Conferences, specialist Regional and National Women’s
oﬃcers, and through positive action, Unite ensures that as a minimum
women and BAEM members are represented on all committees and at all
conferences of the union in proportion to their membership of the union.

6

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

supporting our workforce

We will only achieve full equality in the workplace if we all work together
to tackle the barriers that hold women back.

That is why Unite is undertaking a range of measures in how we recruit
and train our union’s workforce including:

•   As part of our workforce planning and resourcing strategy, using the

digital development of the union to enhance staﬀ skills and open up
new opportunities;

become oﬃcers;

•   Encouraging women across our union to seek promotion or to
•   Encouraging men into staﬀ jobs;
•   Training managers and Executive Council members in non-

discriminatory recruitment practices, including  understanding
unconscious bias;

•   Establishing forums for women to come together across the union to

discuss work related issues and any challenges they may be
experiencing, encouraging open dialogue and engagement to
promote further changes in the workplace;

•   Introducing `name blind’ processing to our recruitment practices. 

Unite believes that ensuring women can achieve their full potential is not
only the right thing to do but it makes good economic sense, and is good
for the union and our members. We are proud of our commitment to
equality in our own workplace, in society and in the wider world, and
committed to taking all proportionate steps to narrowing our own
gender pay gap.

I, Len McCluskey, General Secretary of Unite, conﬁrm that the
information contained within this report is accurate.

•   Familiarisation days to be run in our 10 Regions with an emphasis on

equalities to encourage more women to apply to work for the union;

4 April 2018

7

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

8

Gender Pay Gap  |  4 april 2018

