Gender pay 
report 2017

rics.org/diversity

rics.org/diversity

Foreword from Sean Tompkins, 
Chief Executive Officer

RICS is deeply committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workplace 
and in recent years we have paid particular attention to addressing 
imbalances of reward and opportunity for all employees worldwide.
Nevertheless, I recognise that RICS, like many other organisations, still has a gender pay gap to address 
and this report makes that clear. It is a report that covers only the UK but the actions I want to see us 
taking apply globally – we are committed to fair opportunity for all. 
It’s vitally important that everyone understands what we mean by the ‘gender pay gap’. It is not about 
equality of pay for individuals within the same roles – on this, we have closely reviewed equality of pay 
for equal roles and I am satisfied we have addressed any anomalies. The gender pay gap is different 
and it seems to me that it should really be called the ‘gender role gap’. What gender pay gap reporting 
seeks to do is highlight where there is a need to encourage more women into roles in order to create 
gender balance at all levels in the workforce. Achieving this balance would mean that the total amount 
of salary we pay to all of our women would come much nearer to the total amount we pay to all of our 
men, at all levels.
Where is RICS currently in its balance of genders across job grades? It is not difficult to see that at 
Executive Team Level we only have two women out of nine people and that is something that I am 
keen to address whenever the opportunity arises. Across our wider senior management we have more 
men than women and I would like to see a better balance of genders here too. Having said that, we 
will always appoint the best person for the role, at any level. We have a better balance at other levels of 
seniority which should mean that we have a balanced pipeline of talent moving up our organisation. In 
fact, in the first three quartiles of our UK workforce, we have a higher proportion of women. 
This report highlights these facts and sets out the key actions we are taking to encourage more women 
from within and outside RICS to put themselves forward for promotions and development opportunities.  
We will closely monitor the effectiveness of our actions and I am confident that they will make the impact 
we seek, bringing about a more balanced work force at all levels. This will be an annual report and will 
show the progress we are making in achieving this balance. 

2

RICS gender pay report 2017

Sean Tompkins 
Chief Executive Officer

rics.org/diversity

About RICS

We are the global professional body that promotes and enforces standards in the valuation, 
development and management of land, real estate, construction and infrastructure.

• 

• 

• 

 We qualify built environment, property and infrastructure professionals to the highest educational 
and professional standards.

 We protect clients and consumers via a strict code of ethics.

 We promote the importance of surveying disciplines and provide expert advice and solutions to 
bring about change in the rapidly urbanising world around us.

With offices in 28 countries covering the major political and financial centres of the world, our vision is 
to create confidence in markets internationally and be known for effecting positive change in built and 
natural environments.

Our Culture

To fulfil our vision, we continually seek to hire, develop and retain employees with a wide variety 
of skills and experience from different sectors. Our culture reflects our core values - Professional, 
Influential and Enterprising.

As a responsible employer whose people are fundamentally important to our success, we aim 
to create a working environment where everyone can thrive and flourish. We pride ourselves on 
encouraging a culture where everyone feels they can be who they are in our workplace. At the same 
time as being ambitious and driven by a desire to achieve results, we promote the importance of 
wellbeing and work/home balance for our employees.

Distinguishing between gender 
pay and equal pay

The ACAS Guidance explains the difference between gender pay and equal pay.
“Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry 
out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay 
people unequally because they are a man or a woman. The gender pay gap 
shows the differences in the average pay between men and women.”
RICS is committed to equal pay for similar roles at the same level and we are confident that we have 
a fair and consistent approach to paying individual employees. 

3

RICS gender pay report 2017

rics.org/diversity

RICS Gender Pay Gap Calculations

Tables 1 to 3 below provide the results of the 6 calculations that were performed in accordance with the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 - for more information see Appendix 1.

Gender pay and bonus gap (UK business)
Table 1 shows the mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly 
rates of pay and the mean and median bonus gender pay gap 

Table 1

Hourly fixed pay

Bonus paid

Mean

 29.17%

 34.64%

Median

 27.61%

33.54%

Table 2 shows the proportion of men and women who receive bonus for 
their performance in the 12 months preceding snapshot date 5 April 2017

Table 2

18% 7%

Pay quartiles (UK business)
Table 3 shows the distribution of gender across four quartiles of pay from lowest pay (Quartile 1) to highest pay (Quartile 4). From this, we can see that  
the highest quartile of earners consists of 64% male and 36% female. The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band is based on 552 staff 
– 138 in each quartile.

Table 3
Quartile 1 - lowest

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Quartile 4 - highest

29%

25%

38%

64%

Males: 
41
Females:  97

Males: 
34
Females:  104

71%

Males: 
52
Females:  86

75%

Males: 
87
Females:  51

62%

36%

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

4

RICS gender pay report 2017

In the UK, RICS has a significantly higher percentage of men to women at 
senior level positions. In the highest quartile, there is a higher percentage of 
men to women of 64% to 36%.

There are seven Executive Directors including the CEO based in the UK, 
five of which are men and two are women

rics.org/diversity

Our mentoring scheme is available to all and we encourage women 
to act as mentors and mentees. The scheme is designed not only 
to provide career guidance and encouragement but also to improve 
collaboration through the development of cross-directorate and cross-
border relationships, enabling all employees to expand their internal 
networks and improve communication skills. Our CEO also has two way 
mentoring schemes in place with female employees.

6. Succession planning

The executive team reviews succession plans on a quarterly basis 
and these are regularly reviewed by our Management Board and 
Remuneration Committee. Part of our aim in doing this is to ensure 
that the organisation is developing a talent pipeline that is inclusive and 
diverse, particularly for senior level roles in Quartile 4.

I, Sean Tompkins, Chief Executive Officer, confirm that the information  
in this statement is accurate.

Signed

What is RICS doing to address its gender pay gap?
1. Ensuring a fair and balanced recruitment process 
Our current recruitment process actively seeks to consider a diverse 
and wide selection of candidates, particularly at senior levels. We have 
recently implemented a new recruitment process for senior level roles. 
When we engage external recruitment agencies, where possible, they 
must use their best endeavours to put forward an equal number of 
male and female candidates for all roles at senior level. As part of the 
interviewing process for senior roles, we strive to ensure that there are 
both male and female interviewers on the panel at each stage of the 
interview process.

4.  Training and development for female employees
We provide a range of opportunities for personal and job or career-
specific development for all employees. During the next year, we 
will actively monitor and develop our learning and development 
programmes for female employees who are below the top quartile.

5. Mentoring programme

2.  Identifying what actions our female employees think 

would assist with their career progression 
In the next 6 months, we will carry out a survey amongst our female 
employees to identify what actions they think would help with their 
career progression. The results will be communicated internally. Senior 
Management will review the results to identify whether further initiatives 
could be implemented that would assist female employees to develop 
and progress to more senior roles in the organisation.

3.  Training on diversity and inclusion across  

the organisation
Over the past three years, we have taken proactive steps to foster and 
champion a diverse and inclusive culture where all employees can feel 
entirely comfortable being themselves in the workplace and to increase 
awareness of unconscious bias. One of our first actions was to conduct 
unconscious bias training for our executive team. 

We have appointed a dedicated diversity and inclusion expert to ensure 
that diversity & inclusion is embedded in our people processes. The 
RICS Induction Training also includes a module on equality and diversity 
that all new employees must complete.

5

RICS gender pay report 2017

rics.org/diversity

Appendix 1
UK Gender pay reporting requirements

From April 2017, all UK organisations which employ over 250 employees are required to report 
annually on their gender pay gap. This involves carrying out six calculations which show the 
difference between the average earnings of male and female employees who were employed by our 
UK business on 5th April 2017 which is known as the “snapshot date”. RICS is required to publish 
the results on its own website and UK government website (https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/
Viewing/search-results) by the 5th April 2018.
Gender Pay Gap Calculations 
Under the gender pay gap regulations we are required to calculate the following information:

Calculations

Description

1 The mean gender pay gap

This calculation requires an employer to show the difference 
between the mean1 hourly rate of pay that male and female full-pay 
relevant employees receive

2 The median gender pay gap

This calculation requires an employer to show the difference 
between the median2 hourly rate of pay that male and female full-
pay relevant employees receive

3 The mean bonus gender 

pay gap

This calculation requires an employer to show the difference 
between the mean bonus pay that male and female relevant 
employees receive

4 The median bonus gender 

pay gap

This calculation requires an employer to show the difference 
between the median bonus pay that male and female relevant 
employees receive

5 The proportion of males 

receiving a bonus payment; 
the proportion of females 
receiving a bonus payment

These two calculations require an employer to show the proportion 
of male relevant employees who were paid any amount of bonus 
pay, and the proportion of female relevant employees who were 
paid any amount of bonus pay

6 Proportion of males and 

females in each quartile band

This calculation requires an employer to show the proportions of 
male and female full-pay relevant employees in four quartile pay 
bands, which is done by dividing the workforce into four equal parts

Notes
1.   A mean average involves adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result by how many numbers were in the list. 
2.   A median average involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order. If there is an odd number of results, the 

median average is the middle number. If there is an even number of results, the median will be the mean of the two 
central numbers. 

6

RICS gender pay report 2017

Confidence through professional standards
RICS promotes and enforces the highest professional qualifications and standards  
in the valuation, development and management of land, real estate, construction  
and infrastructure. Our name promises the consistent delivery of standards –  
bringing confidence to markets and effecting positive change in the built and  
natural environments.

Americas
Latin America 
ricsamericalatina@rics.org

Asia Pacific
ASEAN 
ricsasean@rics.org

Greater China (Shanghai) 
ricschina@rics.org

Oceania 
oceania@rics.org

EMEA
Africa 
ricsafrica@rics.org

Ireland 
ricsireland@rics.org

United Kingdom RICS HQ 
contactrics@rics.org

North America 
ricsamericas@rics.org

Greater China (Hong Kong) 
ricseastasia@rics.org

Japan 
ricsjapan@rics.org

South Asia 
ricsindia@rics.org

Europe 
ricseurope@rics.org

Middle East 
ricsmiddleeast@rics.org

rics.org

JAN2018/DML/22649/GLOBAL

