       Gender pay gap                                  Back to top    Contact us         Close              First name Last name Company      I have read and accept the privacy notice    Email Telephone Your enquiry                   Close      Demo form  The text you enter here is displayed directly below the form name. This could be, for example, a description, some instructions, or any other information.        Simple types  The text you enter here is displayed at the top of this section.    Single-Line Text This field can contain one line of input and accepts all types of text. Entries in this field are limited to 255 characters by default. Password This is field is similar to a Single-Line Text field. The input entered into this field is masked. Number This field is used to collect data in numerical format. E-mail This field only accepts valid email addresses. A valid email address must contain @ and ‘.’. The email domain must contain 2 or more characters. Telephone This field is used for telephone numbers. A valid telephone number allows (but doesn’t require) the following characters: "+", "(", ")" "-", the space character and digits. SMS/MMS Telephone This field checks that the value entered is a valid sms/mms telephone number. A valid sms/mms telephone number allows (but doesn’t require) the following characters: "+" and digits. Credit Card This field allows the user to enter a credit card number and verifies that the number is in the right format for that card type. Date         1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31            Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec            2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019       This field contains 3 list boxes that are used to select a day, a month, and a year. File Upload This field displays a text box and a Browse button that users can use to select the file that they want to upload.      Checkbox   This field displays a checkbox that the user can select.      List types  The text you enter here is displayed at the top of this section.    Drop List     item 1  item "  item '  item *  item /  item    This field contains a drop-down list where users can select an option from a list. Radio Buttons List         content         layout         media library         social         system         templates         Archive         Dev area for IT      This field contains a group of radio buttons. List Box   value 1  value with "  value with '  You can select a few values at the same time here    This field contains a list box where users can select one or more options from a list. Checkbox List        content       system         layout       templates         media library       Archive         social       Dev area for IT     This field contains a group of check boxes. The user can select one or more of these check boxes.      Complex Types  The text you enter here is displayed at the top of this section.      Password   This field is used to enter a password, which is compared to the Confirm Password field.     Confirmation   This field confirms that its value is that same as the Password field above.    Type the text shown      The text you enter here is displayed at the end of the form.              Reaching for balance   Gender pay gap report 2017         The World Economic Forum has recently calculated that
it would take over 200 years for disparities in the pay and
employment opportunities of men and women to end at
the current rate. It falls to businesses to accelerate the
closure of this gap, and we welcome the Government’s
new requirement for organisations with more than 250
employees from all sectors to publish their gender pay
data in the UK, in an effort to give transparency, open the
debate and do something about it.     Message from our CEO   We welcome the UK government’s new legislation to publish our annual gender
pay gap data, as we believe this is a significant step towards finding solutions
collectively as an industry to close the gap. The results are not unexpected, and
at ISG we know that we need to do more to improve the gender balance of our
more senior roles, as our results reflect. What is important is how we collectively
address the gender imbalance, to ensure we have a workforce that more accurately
reflects our society. While as individual organisations, we have the mechanisms
to positively affect behavioural change and make our businesses more inclusive
and diverse places to work, our industry needs to collectively work harder to
positively change the conversation and perception of careers in construction.  Paul Cossell, CEO, ISG        Our gender pay gap headlines   We’ve calculated the pay and bonus data from our legal entities across the UK with 250 or more employees, which are:   ISG Construction Ltd - our four UK construction businesses,  ISG Fit Out Ltd - our office fit out and engineering services businesses in the UK,  and ISG Retail Ltd - our UK-wide retail construction and fit out business.     ISG Construction Ltd  Gender pay gap       Gender balance of workforce     ISG Fit out Ltd  Gender pay gap       Gender balance of workforce     ISG Retail Ltd  Gender pay gap       Gender balance of workforce     We’ve made these calculations based on pay and bonus data from April 2016 to April 2017. We welcome the opportunity to publish our gender pay gap findings, and we are committed to taking significant steps towards accelerating closing the gap in our industry.     Reaching for balance - our five-year diversity strategy 2018-2022   We are dedicated to equipping ourselves with the organisational agility to respond quickly and effectively to the ever-changing nature of business today. Creating a diverse business is not only the right thing to do, it helps us to become the kind of global business we want to be. Our ‘Reaching for balance’ five-year diversity strategy aims to accelerate our workforce balance at all  During 2018, we will interrogate and revise our action plan to increase leadership accountability and set targets to drive improvement. We will continue to focus on recruiting a balanced workforce, generating a more balanced leadership succession pipeline, removing potential diversity imbalance barriers, and ensuring that we have an inclusive culture that celebrates diversity at all levels.         What our people say...         Cat Green, Group Marketing and Communications Director   Read Cat's story     Close    "Our vision is to become the world’s most dynamic construction
services company, delivering places that help people and
businesses thrive, and we know that we can only achieve
this if we create environments that foster creativity and
innovation. When I joined ISG in November 2015, I was
the first woman in our global leadership group. Two years
on there are four female members in this top-forty team
of leaders. As more women take leadership roles in
construction, and demonstrate the significant value and
competitive advantage a more diverse boardroom gives
organisations, we will accelerate gender parity at all levels."    Close          Luisa Contini, Project Engineer   Read Luisa's story     Close    "I’ve met some inspiring women during my career in the
construction industry, and although there are still stereotypes
that imply women are not suited for working in this sector,
things have come a long way. ISG actively encourages flexible
working, and is taking proactive strides to create a more
inclusive and diverse workforce. We have signed up to the
Young Women’s Trust pledge to improve apprenticeships for
women, and I believe these initiatives will have a real long-term
impact. Encouraging young women by offering them practical
exposure to construction is the best way to ensure they choose
a hands-on career in the industry."    Close          Zahra Ghaffari, Assistant Project Engineer   Read Zahra's story     Close    "After moving to London, I decided to follow my passion for engineering
and construction, and took up a degree in Structural Engineering. I soon
found out more about ISG’s graduate programme and knew it would be
a great place to continue learning and growing. The programme has not
only given me the chance to work on world-class projects and develop my
engineering skills, but my personal skills too. I’ve also had the opportunity
to take different courses and to learn more about how the business works.
ISG provides you with essential training, the chance to work with and learn
from some of the industry’s best, and gives you the building blocks you
need to help you succeed."    Close          Anthia Lazarou, Graduate Trainee   Read Anthia's story     Close    "I visited ISG’s stand at the University of Reading’s careers fair,
and was impressed by the scale of its portfolio. I knew I wanted
to kick-start my career here, and first joined ISG in 2014 on the
industrial placement scheme, rejoining in 2016 on the graduate
programme. ISG has given me the opportunity to rotate
across core business units, enabling me to gain an integrated
understanding of the delivery process. ISG truly looks after its
employees, with development always being a top priority. All the
teams I’ve worked with have supported my growth and ISG has
equipped me with the tools to jump-start my career."    Close              Nicola Coughlin, Divisional Technical Services Director   Read Nicola's story     Close    "Joining ISG gave me the opportunity to broaden not only my field
of expertise, but also the size and complexity of projects I could be
involved in. My own personal progression has allowed me to pass
this experience on to others and hopefully has enabled them to trust
their own skills so that we can develop the next generation. You are
not limited by being a woman within what is considered a maledominated
industry. You are only limited by yourself – on what you
are prepared and willing to achieve. If you want to be a success,
you will be."    Close          Laura Lees, Senior Surveyor   Read Laura's story     Close    "I first joined ISG for my placement year during my Quantity Surveying &
Commercial Management degree, and returned after graduating. I’ve been
given the opportunity to work in a multitude of sectors on projects ranging
from £200,000 fit outs to £20m construction builds. The company supported
me to complete my MSc in Construction Law and I was very fortunate to
have an excellent female senior surveyor as my line manager when I started
out, and she was a great role model and inspiration for me. The feeling of
being part of a great team is really important to our company; you are never
working in isolation, and have excellent support, enthusiasm and motivation
all around."    Close          Zoe Price, Group Director for Public Frameworks   Read Zoe's story     Close    "I have always been impressed by the way in which our company
supports women returning to work after having children. I joined ISG
when my daughter was three years old and my son was just six months
old. Not only did the company support my wish to work part-time, but I
was also encouraged to build flexible working hours into my contract to
allow me to tailor my childcare arrangements to suit my family. Thanks to
the support from ISG’s senior leadership, who recognise the best people
for each role, I’m still able to work part-time hours and am proud to now
hold a group director position at ISG. My family is not seen as a barrier to my
success or my progression."    Close          Mirna Ayoubi, Design Manager   Ready Mirna's story     Close    "The construction industry is one of the most vibrant industries there
is to work in, as what you do changes from day to day and project
to project. One thing the construction industry is missing is the need
for more female role models. If young women cannot see who they
can be, they cannot be who they want to be. I’m very fortunate
to be working for a company such as ISG that believes in its
employees and encourages them to ‘dream smart’ and ‘never stop
learning’. My confidence has increased immensely. I’m constantly
thinking about where my next project will take me, and with ISG’s
support I believe I can reach my full potential."    Close       Our report in full   Download our report  Click here to download our full gender pay gap 2017 report               Back to top    At ISG, our vision is to be the world’s most dynamic construction services company, delivering places that help people and businesses thrive. Our 2,800 worldwide specialists deliver unbeatable customer experiences fuelled by a fast-paced, ideas-driven culture.                             ©ISGplc 2017         