001

Airbus in the UK 
Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

At Airbus we believe that empowering 
women, promoting equal opportunity and 
ending all forms of discrimination is not only 
a human right, but is key to the success 
of the company. Airbus welcomes the 
UK Government’s Gender Pay Gap reporting 
initiative and also directly supports those 
United Nations Sustainable Development 
Goals which are most relevant to the 
company, including action to address 
gender diversity. More information about 
Airbus’ commitment to responsible business 
and the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals can be found here.

This statement has been published in accordance 
with the Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations 
under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017 which came into 
force on 6th April 2017. 

This legislation requires UK employers with 250 or 
more employees to publish annual statutory 
calculations showing the pay gap between male 
and female employees.

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 002

Our
report

The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.   
Equal pay ensures that men and women receive the same 
pay for carrying out the same work, or equivalent work. 
The gender pay gap is a simple average figure for all 
employees within the UK workforce, irrespective of the 
job that they do.
The data provided within this report 
covers two entities within Airbus 
in the UK: Airbus Operations Ltd and 
Airbus Defence and Space Ltd.  
Airbus Helicopters UK Ltd currently 
falls below the threshold of the 
regulations, however its data will be 
disclosed in future years. 

Airbus in the UK’s overall gender 
pay gap is largely a result of the high 
number of men in senior leadership 
roles and low number of men in more 
junior non-manufacturing roles. 

In line with reporting guidelines, 
the data reflects payments made 
in April 2017. The figures include 
the hourly rate for each relevant 
employee, as defined by the 
legislation. This includes base 
salary and other allowances, 
as well as both individual and 
company performance based 
bonus payments received over the 
previous 12 months.

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 003

Our gender 
pay gap  
results

Airbus in the UK largely operates  
in the manufacturing and engineering 
sectors, which have historically had a 
significantly higher proportion of male 
employees, particularly in manufacturing/
production roles.
The industry is reliant on qualified engineering applicants 
from schools, higher education and universities. Whilst 
applications from women into engineering disciplines at 
university have increased in recent years, they remain 
at only 15.2% in aerospace engineering and 26.8% for 
general engineering*.

We are committed to gender equality and advancing 
women in the workplace. We aim to increase the number 
of women we recruit to 30%. 

Encouraging more women to pursue careers in engineering 
is a significant challenge across industry in the UK, and 
Airbus is committed to working with the UK Government, 
industry and professional bodies, such as the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, to support initiatives which 
promote this. Further details of some of these initiatives can 
be found on page six of this report. 

Whilst Airbus Operations Ltd and Airbus Defence and 
Space Ltd both operate under the Airbus umbrella in 
the UK they employ clearly distinct workforces, with a 
significantly higher proportion of employees working 
within mass manufacturing in Airbus Operations Ltd. It is 
the distinct nature of these workforces that causes the 
notable difference in gender pay gap between the two 
organisations.

*source: Engineering UK 2017 Annual Report, ‘The state of engineering’

Encouraging 
more women to 
pursue careers in 
engineering is a 
significant challenge 
across industry in 
the UK.

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 004

Airbus Operations Ltd

Total UK Workforce

Gender Pay Gap Results:

Mean:

Median:

UK Average (2016) Gender Pay Gap

2.25% (female mean lower)
-0.34% (female median higher)
18.1%

8.5%

Female

91.5% Male

Pay quartiles across the UK Workforce

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Top

13.0%

Female

3.9%

Female

7.4%

Female

10.0%

Female

87.0% Male

96.1% Male

92.6% Male

90.0% Male

Percentage of workforce  
that received a bonus payment:
Male: 97% Female: 89%

Gender Bonus Gap Results:
Mean: -12.4% (Female mean higher) 
Median: -83.7% (Female median higher) 

The predominantly male manufacturing population 
comprises 48% of our total workforce and this affects 
the overall gap. 

The population of Airbus Operations Ltd is split between 
pay grades of employees who are eligible for an individual 
performance bonus payment and those eligible for a 
collective company bonus payment and overtime. 

Employees eligible for overtime payments, which includes 
the majority of the predominately male manufacturing 
population, are not entitled to individual performance 
bonuses. The average individual performance bonus 
payment was of higher value than the company 
performance bonus payment, which has resulted in median 
bonus payments that were higher for women.

Within Airbus Operations Ltd, 97% of men and 89% of 
women received a bonus payment. The difference in this 
figure is because in Airbus Operations Ltd bonuses are 
paid in arrears for each complete calendar year, therefore 
employees joining Airbus mid-way through the year may 
not have been entitled to bonus pay at the time the report 
data was generated.

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 005

Airbus Defence and Space Ltd

Total UK Workforce

Gender Pay Gap Results:

Mean:

Median:

19.1% (female mean lower)

20.4% (female median lower)

UK Average (2016) Gender Pay Gap

18.1%

18.2%

Female

81.8% Male

Pay quartiles across the UK Workforce

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Top

30.5%

Female

19.4%

Female

13.6%

Female

9.5%

Female

69.5% Male

80.6% Male

86.4% Male

90.5% Male

Airbus Defence and Space Ltd is more in line with the 
typical UK workforce composition, with more women in the 
lower pay quartiles. This creates an overall pay gap closer 
to the UK national average.

The gender pay gap within Airbus Defence and Space 
Ltd is impacted by the senior leadership roles within the 
business being predominantly held by men. Currently we 
have a lower percentage of our female employees in the 
senior leadership roles in comparison to other roles in 
our business. Over 80% of Airbus Defence and Space’s 
population work in specialist engineering roles, of which 
less than 15% are women.

The population of Airbus Defence and Space Ltd is split 
between pay grades of employees who are eligible for an 
individual performance bonus payment and those eligible 
for a collective company bonus payment. Within Airbus 
Defence and Space more than 50% of employees, of both 
genders, receive the Company’s collective bonus payment, 
which created an equal median bonus figure for men 
and women. 

Individual performance bonus payments are paid to 
employees within certain higher grades and are based on 
individual salary level, these bonuses are typically higher 
than the collective payment. Proportionately more men 
than women are in grades that receive this individual bonus 
and this has resulted in a mean bonus payment which was 
higher for men.

Percentage of workforce  
that received a bonus payment:
Male: 89% Female: 89%

Gender Bonus Gap Results:
Mean: 34.5% (Female mean lower) 
Median: 0% (median equal) 

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 006

Inclusion at Airbus: 
Airbus takes gender equality seriously and aims to 
achieve gender equality. Airbus’ current proportion of 
female employees globally is 17.2%; we are committed to 
advancing women in the workplace and have set targets to 
increase the number of women we recruit to 30%.

In addition to specific internal programmes aimed at 
promoting gender equality, we are actively involved 
in a number of activities to promote and encourage 
engagement in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Maths) to young people of all genders. 

International Aviation Womens 
Association (IAWA):
Airbus is a sponsor of the International Aviation Womens 
Association, which seeks to cultivate and advance women 
leaders in the aviation and aerospace industries through a 
global network. Founded in 1988, IAWA members serve 
as role models for other women striving to advance and 
progress within the industry. It also encourages young 
women to enter the aerospace industry through IAWA’s 
Scholarship Program.

Balance for Business: 
The company’s inclusion and diversity resource group 
‘Balance for Business’ manages topics such as work 
life balance, career development and increasing gender 
balance through equal employment opportunities. Open 
to all genders, the network helps prepare employees, 
particularly women, for senior roles within the business 
through succession planning, mentoring and coaching. 
The network also highlights the work of female engineers, 
so that they can act as role models that inspire girls to 
pursue engineering careers. 

WES  
(Women’s Engineering Society): 
Airbus is a corporate partner of WES, the professional 
network of women engineers, scientists and technologists 
offering inspiring support and professional development. 
Working in partnership, WES supports and inspires women 
to achieve their goals as engineers, scientists and leaders. 
Some of its programmes and campaigns include the ’90 
for 90’ Role Model Campaign, Inspiring Women campaign 
and MentorSET, a unique cross-sector mentoring scheme 
to support women in science, engineering and technology. 

WISE (Women in Science 
and Engineering): 
Airbus works alongside organisations such as WISE 
(Women in Science and Engineering) whose mission is to 
ensure gender parity in the UK scientific, technology and 
engineering workforce, from classroom to board room. 
WISE enables and energises people in business, industry 
and education to increase the participation, contribution 
and success of women in STEM. Its members aim to 
inspire girls to choose STEM subjects and to attract, retain, 
develop and progress female talent in their companies. 

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 007

Having greater awareness of the Gender Pay Gap has enabled 
us to take a holistic view of our company, and we will use the 
results to support initiatives to reduce it over the coming years. 
Due to the structural changes required to address many of the 
causes of the gender pay gap, the effects of these initiatives 
may take many years to be fully realised.
We will continue to monitor our gender pay gap levels, 
focusing on ways to attract, retain and develop our diverse 
talent by supporting flexible working practices, encouraging 
more female staff at higher levels of the business and actively 
supporting company-wide initiatives encouraging diversity.

Mark Stewart
General Manager and HR Director  
Airbus Operations Ltd

Cornelia Thieme
Head of HR UK  
Airbus Defence and Space Ltd

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 008

AIRBUS in the UK 
© AIRBUS. 2018 – All rights reserved, Airbus, its  
logo and the product names are registered trademarks.
Concept design by Airbus Graphic Design Services, Filton. 
Photos by Airbus. 
Reference 10600-262. January, 2018.
Confidential and proprietary document. This document 
and all information contained herein is the sole property 
of AIRBUS. No intellectual property rights are granted 
by the delivery of this document or the disclosure of 
its content. This document shall not be reproduced or 
disclosed to a third party without the express written 
consent of AIRBUS.
This document and its content shall not be used
for any purpose other than that for which it is supplied. 
The statements made herein do not constitute an offer.
They are based on the mentioned assumptions
and are expressed in good faith. Where the supporting 
grounds for these statements are not shown,  
AIRBUS will be pleased to explain the basis thereof..

Airbus in the UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 