 

 

 

2017 
 

Eurotunnel Gender Pay Report 
 

 

 

 

Eurotunnel Services Limited 
 

 

 

February 2018 
 

 

                                                                                                                                                             

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

The Channel Tunnel is the fastest, easiest, most reliable and environmentally friendly transport system for crossing the Channel. 
 
Eurotunnel operates a Passenger Shuttle service which transports cars, coaches and other tourist vehicles as well as a Truck 
 
Shuttle service. The Channel Tunnel is used by more than 2.6 million cars and 1.5 million trucks every year, making it by far the 
 
 
 
world leader in piggyback transport. 
  
 
Since 1994, more than 390 million passengers and 70 million vehicles (including 25 million trucks) have used the Channel Tunnel. 
  
 
 
In addition, Eurotunnel manages the transit through the Channel Tunnel of high speed trains for passengers and rail freight trains 
from rail operators. Around 10 million passengers a year are transported via the Channel Tunnel between London and the 
 
continent on high speed rail services. Since 1994, over 320 million tonnes of freight has been transported via the Channel Tunnel 
 
 
 
on board Truck Shuttles and on rail freight trains. Around 25% of the trade in goods between the UK and continental Europe will 
pass through the Channel Tunnel. 
 
 
Groupe Eurotunnel employs around 3,500 people across Europe of which 941 are employed directly by Eurotunnel in the UK. 
  
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eurotunnel Relevant Employees 

 

 

Full-time / Part-time Employees 

   

 

280 

76 

37 

204 

661 

624 

Female Full-time Employees  Male Full-time Employees 

 

 

 

 

Female Relevant Employees  Male Relevant Employees 

 

 

 

 

Female Part-time Employees  Male Part-time Employees 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2 

  
 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap – Ordinary Pay 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Eurotunnel adheres to the HAY evaluation process for setting pay rates within salary banded positions. Since 2006, for all other 
 
positions, Eurotunnel operates a ‘Rate for the Job’ policy which ensures that all employees are paid the same salary for 
 
 
 
performing the same job. It is recognised that Eurotunnel, whilst adhering to an equal opportunities policy, is a largely male 
 
dominated environment. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UK Full Pay Relevant Employees 

 

 

 

 

70.4% 

29.6% 

Female Full-pay Relevant Employees 

 

 

 

Male Full-pay Relevant Employees 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean Ordinary Pay 
 

 

 

Gap 
 

15.2% 
 

 

 

Median Ordinary Pay 
 

 

 

 
Gap 

15.5% 
 

 

 

 

 

Areas of the business, such as Train Drivers, Infrastructure maintenance and Mechanical & Engineering departments have 
 
historically lent themselves to a mainly male workforce. With the technical competencies and qualifications required for 
 
these roles, salaries tend towards the upper quartile. Whilst our salary structures ensure that employees within these roles 
 
are rewarded equitably, our ordinary pay gap reflects our predominantly male population. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
3 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap – Bonus Payments 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Eurotunnel offers our employees access to generous bonus schemes, in the form of an annual general bonus and a four-monthly 
 
quality of service bonus. Our bonus schemes are based on the Company’s operating performance, financial results and delivery 
 
of a quality service to our customers. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Female Relevant 
 

 

Employees Receiving a 
 

 

 

Bonus 
 

88.9% 
 

 

 

 

Male Relevant 
 

 

 

 

Employees Receiving a 
 

 

 

Mean Bonus Gap 
 

 

 

22.6% 
 

Median Bonus Gap 
 

 

 

 
Bonus 

88.4% 
 

11.6% 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eurotunnel believes that it offers fair bonus schemes to female and male colleagues alike, with gender parity in those receiving 
 
bonuses. The gender bonus gap illustrated above is a result of a number of factors: 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1. The difference in the part-time ratio between females and males: 27.1% of relevant females are part-time compared to 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.6% of relevant males. The gender gap for bonuses does not make allowances for this in the calculation. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

2. A male population weighting in certain departments reflects in the annual general bonus which is salary related. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3. A higher proportion of male employees in senior management roles. 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap by Quartiles


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

The charts below shows the distribution of 911 full pay relevant 
 
employees across four equal quartiles. The number of female to 
 
male employees decreases the higher the pay quartile. As explained 
 
 
on page 3, a number of roles in our Company tend to attract a 
 
 
predominantly male workforce. 
  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
However, it is clear from the mean pay gap within each quartile that 
 
the small variance between male and female rates means that 
 
employees are paid equally for the types of roles that they fulfil 
within these quartiles. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Upper Quartile 
 
Median Pay Gap 
 

 

 
0.3% 
 

Upper Middle Quartile 
 

 

 

Median Pay Gap 
 

 

 
3.4% 
 

Lower Middle Quartile 
 

 

 

 

 
Lower Quartile 
Median Pay Gap 
 

 

 

Median Pay Gap 
 

 

 
-0.1% 
 

-8.2% 
 

 
5 

­
Key Findings 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap Summary 
 

 

 

 

Eurotunnel’s overall median gender pay gap at April 2017 is 15.5%, below the national median pay gap of 18.1%

reported for April 2016 (Office for National Statistics data). Our data is based on our relevant workforce (those receiving full

 
pay in April 2017) which is 70.4% male and 29.6% female.


 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The nature of our business means that the highest paid roles are predominantly filled by male employees. These roles tend 
 
to be within our maintenance and engineering divisions and Train Drivers. Whilst Eurotunnel undertakes robust and 
 
 
unbiased recruitment processes, we recognise that it is predominantly males who apply for these types of roles. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Our median bonus pay gap of 11.6% for bonuses paid to around 88% of male and female employees, reflects the 
 
standardisation of our bonus schemes across the majority of our staff. However, a higher average bonus gender gap reflects 
 
 
that a far higher proportion of our female employees are part-time workers (over 27%) compared to males (less than 6%). 
 
 
The level of part-time workers is indicative of the Company’s commitment to Flexible Working arrangements. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eurotunnel recognises that females are under-represented at senior management level in the UK. Our recently 
 
implemented, group wide people development tools will help the Company identify the necessary skills and talents across 
 
both female and male employees and encourage development at senior management level. 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Company Statement 

 

Eurotunnel is committed to the principle of gender pay equality. Our 2017 gender pay gap report has been 
 
prepared in line with mandatory requirements. 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nick Hawley 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Director Human Resources UK 
 
February 2018 
 

 

 

 

6 
 

­
­
­
