 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
 

Openwork is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

•  The mean gender pay gap for Openwork is 37.28%. 
•  The median gender pay gap for Openwork is 18.62%. 
•  The mean gender bonus gap for Openwork is 69.83%. 
•  The median gender bonus gap for Openwork 33.30%. 
•  The proportion of male employees in Openwork receiving a bonus is 73.53% and the proportion of 

female employees receiving a bonus is 79.14%. 

Breakdown of males/females employed by Openwork: 

  
Males  
Female  

No. of employees 

Gender split 

204 
187 

 

52.18% 
47.82% 

Pay quartiles by gender  

Band 

Males 

Females 

Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

43.88% 

56.12% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or 
below the lower quartile 

40.82% 

59.18% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

59.18% 

40.82% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

64.95% 

35.05% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or 
above the upper quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

What are the underlying causes of Openwork’s 18.62% gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

the same or broadly similar work; 

• 
•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 
•  work of equal value. 

Openwork is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees, 
regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same 
or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As such, it: 

carries out annual pay audits  

• 
•  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

Openwork is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men 
and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles (especially very 
senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men to be in front-line roles at the 
lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are more likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which 
attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority. Women are also more likely than men 
to have had breaks from work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up children. 
They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-
time basis are relatively low paid. 

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of Openwork’s workforce, where 
the majority of administration roles within the business are undertaken by women, while the majority of line 
manager and senior manager roles are held by men.  

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows Openwork’s workforce 
divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of 
employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for 
there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each Band. 
However, within Openwork, 56.12% of the employees in Band A are women and 43.88% men. The 
percentage of male employees increases throughout the remaining Bands, from 59.18% in Band C to 
64.95% in D. 

The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender bonus gap for Openwork is relatively large at 75.68% 
and 33.52% respectively.  This is largely as a consequence of how the bonus scheme structure operates, 
where senior staff (mostly held by men) receive a proportionally higher award, in line with external market 
norms, compared to more junior roles (mostly held by women).  Currently, only a third of the most senior 
roles at Openwork (and typically highest paid) are held by women. 

How does Openwork’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 

The median Gender Pay Gap for the economy as a whole is 18.4% based on the Annual Survey of 
Household Earnings provisional for 2017 and 2016 revised, and within Financial Services, the median 
gender pay gap is 24%.  Openwork’s median gender pay gap of 18.62% is 5.38% lower than the industry 
average. 

 

 

 

 

What is Openwork doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While Openwork’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations across the Financial 
Services industry, this is not a subject about which Openwork is complacent, and it is committed to doing 
everything that it can to reduce the gap.  

The steps that Openwork is already taking to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce include 
the following: 

•  Reviewing recruitment and internal promotion practices 
•  Becoming a member of the Women in Finance Charter, to encourage more women to consider and 

develop careers within the Financial Services industry. 

•  Encouraging more flexible working across the Company, particular at a senior level where the 
prevalence is low and which may discourage women to consider more senior positions with the 
Company 

•  Maintaining our commitment to and status as a ‘Living Wage’ employer 
•  Broadening the scope of the Company’s values based management development programme to 

include aspiring managers, not just aimed at those currently in management roles 

•  Delivery of a leadership development programme, with 50:50 split of men and women, helping to 
equip predominantly quartile C level staff with the leadership skills for senior management roles at 
Openwork, and for those at quartile D level, focussing on succession planning and career 
development for their staff 

In addition, Openwork participates in the Best Companies Survey, where the Company attained a One Star 
rating for staff engagement. The survey results have been disseminated across the business, with focussed 
action plans now in place to address staff feedback on personal growth and career development 
opportunities.   

The Company has also established a Diversity Group within the business, with whom the Company will 
engage and consult with on a range of diversity related issues, including ways of addressing the Gender Pay 
Gap, the output of which will help shape the Company’s action plan. 

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years before some 
have any impact at all. In the meantime, Openwork is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is 
doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 

Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the company intranet. 

I, Ben Corlett, Head of Human Resources, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

Signed 

Date 3 April 2018 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

