Gender Pay  
Report 2017

nats.aero

2

This is the first time we have reported on our gender pay 
and believe this is a great opportunity for us and other 
organisations to make a difference. As a result of this work 
we have identified we do have a gender pay gap of 16.9% 
and we have created a gender pay action plan in response.

Our commitment is to address the imbalance in our gender 
pay. We are taking steps to understand and tackle the root 
causes of our pay gap and to improve the ways we attract, 
support, develop and progress women in our organisation. 
By analysing the gender pay gap we hope that we, and other 
organisations in the UK, can rebalance gender diversity and 
overcome the historical practices and difficulties of attracting 
women into technical and operational roles.

Our pay gap exists primarily because we have more men 
than women in senior roles and this is reflective of the 
gender imbalance we have across our whole organisation; 
26% of our employees are women. Our aim is to increase 
the proportion of women in our organisation and in our 
managerial team by 2020.

Our gender imbalance also represents a wider UK issue. 
Only 11% of the engineering and technical workforce in 
the UK are women*. There is more that we, and other 
organisations like us, must do to encourage and support 
women in pursuing STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Maths) related careers.

We are committed to addressing the issues that have 
created our gender imbalance and attracting women to 
organisations like ours. This commitment also goes beyond 
gender diversity. Attracting and retaining employees with 
diverse backgrounds, thoughts, experience, knowledge and 
skills who can help continue to advance aviation and keep 
the skies safe is fundamental to our success.

 

*2017 IET skills survey: https://
www.theiet.org/factfiles/education/
skills2017-page.cfm?type=pdf

 
Julie Elder 
HR & Corporate Services Director

NATS Gender Pay Report 20173

The gender of our employees

The proportion of employees at NATS

74%

Men

26%

Women

The proportion of employees in our senior management roles

78%

Men

22%

Women

The proportion of employees in each pay quartile

81% 

82% 

79% 

58% 

Men

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

19% 

18% 

21% 

42% 

Women

NATS Gender Pay Report 20174

Our pay gap

16.9% 19.9%

Our mean pay gap

Our median pay gap1

Why we have a pay gap

Our gender pay gap is largely driven by more men in senior roles. When we remove 
this factor and look at the average pay gap at each level it drops to around 1.5%.

Our bonus gap

27.6%

Our mean bonus gap

0%

Our median bonus gap

Our bonus figures include a one-off group payment, which was made in October 
2016 and has positively impacted our position this year. Our median bonus gap 
of 0% reflects our Company Performance Related Pay scheme which rewards all 
our employees the same level of bonus regardless of their role or level, for their 
contribution in helping us to successfully achieve our business objectives. 

1The mean is the sum of all the numbers in the set divided by the amount of numbers in the set. The median is the 
middle point of a number set, in which half the numbers are above the median and half are below.

NATS Gender Pay Report 20175

The proportion of employees receiving a bonus payment

96.0%

94.8%

Men

Women

Why we have a bonus pay gap

Our managerial group attract additional bonuses as part of their remuneration package  
and we have more men than women in this group. Bonuses for this group are calculated 
as a percentage of individual earnings and as men fill more of the senior higher paid roles 
their bonus is typically higher. When we improve the gender balance in our senior roles we 
expect the bonus gap to improve.

Bonus pay is pro rated for part-time employees, this contributes to our bonus gap, 
however this way of working is valued by employees and supports our values. We support 
family-friendly working practices and where possible will accommodate part-time and 
flexible working, to suit individuals and attract and retain the talent we need to succeed as 
an organisation.

NATS Gender Pay Report 20176

A summary of our gender pay action plan:

1

2

3

We will increase the proportion of women in 
our senior management roles by 2020 and 
encourage progression into and through senior 
roles by investing in their development through 
our new talent strategy.

We will make every effort to remove any 
unconscious bias in our people processes.

We will encourage more young women to consider 
STEM subjects and NATS as a future career choice.

NATS Gender Pay Report 20177

Our gender pay action plan

We know that as an organisation we need to do more to improve both our  
pay and bonus gaps. We have reviewed the proportion of men and women  
in senior management roles, and created targets to improve this. We have 
identified talented women across our business and are supporting them  
through development programmes. 

Recently, we looked at understanding any bias within our recruitment and selection 
processes by analysing success rates for men and women. Whilst our analysis does not 
indicate any particular bias issue we are continuing to work closely with our recruitment 
providers to ensure we access diverse applicant pools for all recruitment opportunities. 
We are committed to training our managers in unconscious bias and will be reviewing 
our selection and people processes in an attempt to improve our diversity.

1

2

3

Bring Your Daughter to Work Day 2017

We are not alone in having difficulty attracting women to technical and operational 
roles; it is a nationwide issue and compared to other Air Traffic Service Providers in 
Europe, our gender split is reflective of the industry. Just one way we are starting 
to address this is through our  ‘Bring Your Daughter to Work Day 2017’ which we 
launched in July 2017 and was aimed at school and college aged females. Feedback 
was extremely positive with 92% saying they are studying or thinking about studying 
a STEM subject. We hope that this and future events will help to play a part in 
encouraging women to consider STEM subjects, and NATS as a career path.

NATS Gender Pay Report 20178

Our talent
We have created a talent strategy that outlines how we will attract, retain and develop our 
employees to support their success and the success of our organisation.

An objective of our talent strategy is to develop a more diverse workforce and we plan 
to strengthen our approach to this through the creation of a new diversity and inclusion 
strategy in 2018/19.

Our balanced approach to succession planning helps us identify high-potential 
employees who we offer development opportunities such as mentoring and 
leadership programmes. 

We also invest in the development of women with potential to help accelerate their 
progress to more senior  roles and we provide funding and time off from work to 
employees who want to gain a professional qualification. We believe that this investment 
in development will help to drive progression through the business, encouraging more 
women to progress to senior roles.

The proportion of employees currently studying for a professional qualification

52%

Men

48%

Women

NATS Gender Pay Report 20179

Our future
NATS is a great company to work for and I believe 
that it is important that all of our employees 
are rewarded equitably regardless of gender, 
encouraging an environment that supports diverse 
thinking and backgrounds. 

I fully endorse our gender pay action plan and believe 
that these steps will help us reduce the gender 
imbalance we have at NATS. 

As an employer in the UK, and globally, our gender 
pay action plan means we will also be helping to 
improve the imbalance of women in operational and 
technical careers.

We will continue to encourage and support 
transparency on gender pay issues and we will keep 
up to date with, and share, best practice and ideas 
with other organisations as we aim to improve 
gender imbalance across the aviation industry.

I confirm the information and data reported is 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

 

 
Martin Rolfe 
CEO

NATS Gender Pay Report 201710

Our Statutory Declaration 

We have two employing entities within the NATS Group; NATS (En Route) PLC and NATS 
(Services) Limited. NATS (En Route) PLC employees work on the en route side of our 
business. NATS (Services) Limited employees work in our airports and commercial arm 
of our business. Under the Gender Pay Reporting Regulations we are required to provide 
information for both these entities. This is set out below.

NATS (En Route) PLC

Pay and bonus gap
Pay
Bonus

Mean
16.4%
25.7%

Median
17.7%

0%

The proportion of employees receiving a bonus

95.9%

94.6%

Men

Women

The proportion of employees in each pay quartile

80.2%

79.8%

75.7%

56.6%

Men

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

19.8%

20.2%

24.3%

43.4%

Women

NATS Gender Pay Report 201711

NATS (Services) Limited

Pay and bonus gap
Hourly Pay
Bonus

Mean
19.8%
33.3%

Median
23.5%

0%

The proportion of employees receiving a bonus

96.2%

95.6%

Men

Women

The proportion of employees in each pay quartile

88.1%

85.0%

86.8%

63.0%

Men

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

11.9%

15.0%

13.2%

37.0%

Women

The information in our report is based on average hourly rates of pay at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. It also 
captures the mean and median differences between bonuses paid to men and women for the period 6 April 2016 
to 5 April 2017.

NATS Gender Pay Report 2017