GENDER PAY GAP

About us 
Clintons was founded in 1968 as Clinton Cards. We are a leading retailer 
of greeting cards, gifts and wrap. At present, we have 360 Clintons stores 
nationwide across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, as well 
as a transactional website. 

Gender & Bonus Pay Gap 
The figures below show our overall mean and median gender pay gap and 
bonus pay gap based on hourly rates of pay. The percentage shown is the 
difference in overall mean and median for pay and bonuses between men 
and women:

As a multi-branded retailer, we want to ensure everyone is rewarded fairly 
for their work and can confidently expect to enjoy the same access to 
opportunities regardless of age, sex or ethnic origin. We are confident that 
our existing gender pay gap is not caused by men and women being paid 
differently to do the same job. Instead, it is driven by workforce structure.

Clintons employs more than 250 people, which means we are required by 
law to publish an annual gender pay gap report showing the difference, if 
any, in average female and male earnings. 

This is our report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

Difference between men and women
 
Hourly Pay Gap 
Bonus Pay Gap 

Mean (Average)  Median (Middle)
16.33% 
62.40% 

0.00% 
60.00%

Our figures demonstrate that Clintons has a low pay differential between male and 
female team members. Looking at the median result of 0.0% we see a zero hourly pay 
gap differential. Within Clintons, hourly rates for our team members in store operations 
are determined by a number of factors. These include national living/minimum wage and 
each store’s annual turnover, size and location. To provide some context to our figures, the 
ASHE Survey 2017 indicates that across the wider Retail Sector the hourly rate median 
was found to 9.3%, with the mean being 16.4%. The pay gap, therefore, is lower at 
Clintons than for the sector as a whole.

Gender Breakdown - Lower Quartile

Gender Breakdown - Lower Middle Quartile

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Breakdown - Upper Middle Quartile

Gender Breakdown - Upper Quartile

Proportion of males  
and females in each  
pay quartile 
We have divided our total 
population of 3,252 team 
members into four equal–sized 
pay quartiles, each containing  
813 team members.

The graphs show the combined 
percentage of males and females 
in each quartile as well as a further 
breakdown of team members that 
are full-time or part-time.

84.19% of Clintons team members are female. The retail industry offers flexible working hours, which can be attractive to women who are more likely to have unpaid family responsibilities. 

The proportion of male and females receiving a bonus payment 
Of our total team members, 0.52% received a bonus payment in 2016. The figures show that of our team members, just 
under 1% more men received a bonus payment than women. Whilst the percentage shows that more males received a 
bonus, overall within Clintons a higher number of women actually received a bonus in comparison to men. 

 Received a bonus payment %  

 Did not receive a bonus payment %

MALE 
1.36%

FEMALE  
0.37%

Gender Pay Gap

Our continuing commitments  

Giving all team members access to 
internal career opportunities and 
support  with interviews
We advertise vacancies internally, encouraging 
team members looking to progress the 
opportunity to do so. As a part of our internal 
progression, team members have access to our 
internal interview support scheme.

Apprenticeship Levy to Progress
Using the Apprenticeship Levy, we 
will make our team members aware of 
apprenticeship opportunities available 
to them for future progression. With the 
support of our mentors, team members 
will be able to build confidence and make 
meaningful connections.

Continue to look at succession 
planning from within
Senior Management will continue to 
identify and develop talent by providing 
succession from within our business.
From April 2017 we have had 591 internal 
promotions, 77.49% of which were women.

The key factor behind Clintons gender pay gap is the balance of men  
and women across job levels. This is a common structural problem that  
we are addressing through more effective recruitment activity, training  
and succession planning.

When evaluating our job levels at operational segment level  
(store operations vs head office), we can see that:

 

 

• 63.96% of roles in our Head Office are held by women

• 84.76% of our store operation roles are held by women

There are significantly fewer head office senior roles and turnover at  
this level is much lower than at store operations level, which means 
vacancies for such roles do not arise as frequently. 

As a business we will continue to make progress, utilising our succession 
planning to encourage a growing female representation at our highest 
management grades.

I can confirm that data contained within this report is accurate. 

Eddie Shepherd 
Chief Executive Officer 

