Gender Pay Gap

Report 2017

Introduction

At Your Homes Newcastle, we value, celebrate 
and embrace Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. 
We believe this approach makes us stronger 
and more effective. Having an inclusive work-
force, which reflects our customers, is critical to 
delivering excellent services.

The government has introduced compulsory 
gender pay gap analysis for organisations with 
250 or more employees, by April 2018. Gender 
pay gap data shows the distribution of male 
and female earners across an organisation and 

can help show employers if there are parts 
of their organisation where men and women 
don’t have the same opportunities.

The ‘gender pay gap’ is not the same as ‘equal 
pay’. The ‘gender pay gap’ measures the differ-
ence in average hourly earnings between men 
and women whilst equal pay means that men 
and women in the same employment perform-
ing equal work must receive equal pay, as set 
out in the Equality Act (2010).

How is the gender 
pay gap calculated?

Mean pay gap: By adding up the hourly pay for 
all women at YHN and dividing the total by the 
total number of women and then repeating 
for men at YHN, you can see the difference 
in the average hourly pay rate for women 
compared to men. It’s useful because it gives a 
good overall indication of the gender pay gap, 
but very large or small pay rates can skew the 
answer.

Median pay gap: If you separately line up all the 
women and all the men at YHN, the median 
pay gap is the difference between the hourly 
pay rate for the middle woman compared to 
that of the middle man. Median averages show 
the ‘typical’ situation because they are not 
distorted by very large or very small pay rates.

Looking at YHN
Our workforce: We have just over 800 colleagues:

Women
50%

Men
50%

Our gender pay gap:

The mean pay 

The median pay

Pay

4.6% 
higher

mean pay for women 

is 4.6% higher than 

that of men

Pay

16.5% 
higher
median pay for 
women is 16.5% 

higher

18.4%

Here, our results are very 
different from the picture 
nationwide, where woman 

earn 18.4% less 

than men1

1 Median gender pay gap, full-time and part- time employees, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings: 2017 provisional and 2016 revised results, ONS

Bonus gender pay gap information: Our pay structure does not 
include bonuses.

The proportion of men and women in each quartile:

Upper

Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

51.2%

men

35.1%

men

41.1%
69.3%

men

men

women

48.8%

women

64.9%

women

women

58.9%
30.7%

By analysing our workforce into four equal groups or quartiles, based on hourly pay rate, we can see 
how men and women are distributed across the organisation. The top quartile has the highest 25% 
of earners, the middle quartile the next 25% earners and so on.

This shows that:

• At the most senior levels of the organisation, our gender balance is close to the workforce as a 

whole

• There are more women than men in the middle and lower middle quartiles

• Men are over-represented in the lower pay quartile.  This is because this quartile includes roles 

which have, to date, largely been undertaken by men.

Understanding our results

Our results show that we are doing well at attracting and retaining women at the most senior levels 
of the organisation. Half of our roles at Assistant Director level and above, including our Managing 
Director, are undertaken by women.

This is also indicative of our commitment to building a culture of total inclusivity in the work place. 
We:

• have a job evaluation process that ensures we have a fair and transparent means of paying staff 

regardless of gender

• use a competency framework in the recruitment and selection processes

• provide diversity training for all staff

• have a wide range of flexible working options to enable our employees to achieve a balance 

between their home and working lives

• support well-developed and active staff diversity network groups – Proud@YHN, the Multi-Cultural 

Staff Network Group and VisABLE

• are a Stonewall Diversity Champion. We have been a Stonewall top 100 employer for the last 

nine years and this year we were also included in the top ten employers who had demonstrated a 
signiﬁcant commitment to trans equality in the workplace

• we are also a ‘disability conﬁdent’ employer (the successor to the ‘two ticks scheme’) and a 

signatory to a signatory to the ‘Mindful Employer’ charter

• actively recruit people living in the homes we manage through our ‘Your Homes Your Jobs’ and 

apprenticeships

We have adopted the Newcastle Living Wage as part of its pay structure. Newcastle City Council 
ﬁrst introduced the Newcastle Living Wage ﬁve years ago to give people and families a better 
chance to succeed, providing a wage to help achieve a higher standard of living and we have always 
supported this. The Newcastle Living Wage rate increased from £8.25 per year to £8.45 per hour in 
October 2017, which resulted in an increase in salary for all YHN employees on the lowest two pay 
grades and nearly all those on the third lowest pay grade.

We are pleased with our record so far on equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace but know 
there is more to do. As an organisation, we will continue to explore how we can take action to 
support and increase under-represented groups in our workforce.

Your Homes Newcastle Limited. Registered in England and Wales. Registration number 5076256.

Registered ofﬁ ce: Newcastle Civic Centre, Barras Bridge, Newcastle upon Tyne,

NE1 8PR. A company controlled by Newcastle City Council.

Follow us on Facebook. Search Your Homes Newcastle

Follow us on Twitter: @NewsfromYHN

