Gender Pay Gap Report 

Introduction

At Lorien*, we welcome the 
opportunity to discuss our gender  
pay gap as a key part of building  
trust with our people, customers  
and candidates is transparency.  
While we have a healthy gender 
balance - with just over 50% of  
our employees being female -  
we recognise that we have a gender 
pay gap and that there is more  
we can do to close it.

Lorien’s overall median gender  
pay gap is 22.65%. Of the people 
included in the calculations, 27% 
are temporary workers whose pay 
is fixed by our customers. In the 
interests of full disclosure, we have 
chosen to provide an analysis of  
our 211 permanent UK employees. 

Among our people our median 
gender pay gap is 38.2%. Our pay 
structure rewards men and women 
performing the same roles equally, 
yet women are under-represented 
in senior management and in high 
bonus-earning sales roles, which 
impacts our gender pay gap. 

Both the sales and technology 
sectors attract fewer women  
than men. Therefore, given that 
Lorien specialises in technology 
recruitment this combination 
compounds our gender pay gap. 

We have made good progress with 
diversity and inclusion at Lorien  
and understanding our gender  
pay gap drives us to do more. 

We are committed to improving 
the gender balance of our senior 
managers, which is key to tackling 
our gender pay gap. 

We are investing in a range of 
initiatives to bring about change  
and this report outlines more detail 
about what we are undertaking as 
part of a broader focus on creating  
a more inclusive workplace. 

Claire Marsh
Chief Executive Officer,  
Lorien 

I confirm the information  
and data reported is accurate as  
of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Julia Robertson  
Group CEO, Impellam Group Plc

* The legal entity Lorien Resourcing Limited includes all employees of Lorien and onezeero.

2

Lorien Gender Pay Gap ReportUnderstanding  
the gender pay gap 

Gender pay vs equal pay 

A gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay across  
all of the men and women in an organisation, industry or country 
as a whole. It can be driven by the differing number of men  
and women across all roles. 

It is not the same as an equal pay comparison which looks  
at how much men and women are paid for doing the same role. 

How we calculated  
our numbers

Under the UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation, 
companies need to report their gender pay gap for all legal 
entities in Great Britain with more than 250 employees.  
We have provided data on all of our permanent and temporary 
employees, as required by the regulation. 

Given Lorien is a staffing business we have a very high  
number of temporary employees on our payrolls at any  
one time doing work for customers. This number fluctuates 
depending on requirements from our clients, and typically  
the rate of pay that our temporary workers receive is decided  
by our clients. On 5th April 2017, 27% of full pay relevant 
employees used in these gender pay calculations were 
temporary. We have also reported on our permanent  
employees only.

Pay quartiles explained

A pay quartile is calculated by listing the hourly pay rates  
for everyone in the business then dividing them in to four  
equal sized groups. We then work out the percentage  
of men and women in each group. 

 

Median and mean  
gaps explained

The figure used most regularly is the median gender pay gap.  
To help bring this to life, imagine all of the women at Lorien 
standing in one line, from lowest paid by hour to highest,  
and all of the men doing the same in another line. The median 
gender pay gap is the percentage difference in hourly pay 
between the woman in the middle of the line and the man in 
the middle of the line. Hourly pay includes leave and any shift 
premiums, but not overtime.

Lowest paid

Median

Highest paid

The mean gender pay gap is the percentage difference  
in the average pay of men and women. This is calculated  
by adding up all of the hourly pay rates for all of the women  
in a business and dividing it by the number of women, then 
doing the same for the men and comparing the difference.  
The mean can be affected by different numbers of men  
and women in different roles. This is why we also report  
the number of men and women in different pay quartiles. 

We also report the median and mean differences in bonus  
pay over a twelve month period, and the percentage of  
men and women who received a bonus. 

A positive percentage shows a gap in favour of men;  
a negative percentage shows a gap in favour of women. 

3

Lorien Gender Pay Gap ReportOur figures for 2017

All UK employees, including 
temporary and permanent

Pay - hourly rate

Median

22.65%

Mean

27.60%

Proportion of employees according to quartile bands

Male

Female

Upper 
(highest 
paid)

65%

35%

40%

Upper 
middle

60%

Did you know?

•   Lorien’s overall gender pay gap is 22.65%.  
For our permanent employees, it’s 38.2%. 

•   Just over 50% of Lorien’s employees are female.  

They are under-represented in senior management  
roles and this is the main reason for our gender pay gap.

•   Within our organisation, we have fewer women than men  

in sales roles that attract high bonus payments. We also 
have a larger number of women working in roles that 
don’t include bonus payments - such as support and 
administrative functions - which further increases  
the bonus gap. 

•   The technology sector is 75% male and has an average  

pay gap of 25%*.

Permanent employees only

Lower 
middle

46%

54%

Lower 
(lowest 
paid)

38%

62%

Median / mean hourly pay gap 

Median / mean bonus pay gap 

38.20 / 36.09%

63.68 / 61.00%

% males / females receiving a bonus payment 

87.72 / 71.07%

Bonus pay difference between men and women

Median

69.64%

Mean

66.60%

Upper quartile (male / female %) 

Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower quartile (male / female %) 

77.36 / 22.64%

45.28 / 54.72%

45.28 / 54.72%

30.77 / 69.23%

Temporary employees only

Percentage of males / females receiving a bonus payment

Male

Female

68%

Median / mean hourly pay gap 

Median / mean bonus pay gap 

-7.21 / -27.65%

-122.51 / -99.21%

% males / females receiving a bonus payment 

18.18 / 44.29%

Upper quartile (male / female %) 

61%

Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower quartile (male / female %) 

26.32 / 73.68%

45.00 / 55.00%

35.00 / 65.00%

52.63 / 47.37%

* Mercer, https://www.uk.mercer.com/our-thinking/the-gender-pay-gap-in-uk-tech-sector.html

4

Lorien Gender Pay Gap ReportHow we are building  
an inclusive business

We are committed to creating an inclusive and diverse business built on trust and the following initiatives support our goals:

1.  Team Cohesion -  
our Diversity and 
Inclusion Group
 Team Cohesion promotes a united, inclusive working 
environment by informing, educating and increasing 
exposure to diversity and inclusion amongst our people  
and our clients. Team Cohesion creates employee networks 
to ensure that our people are supported and encouraged  
to bring their authentic selves to work. 

 

 

 Lorien has team up with onezeero. – Impellam Group’s 
specialist staffing brand focussed on the tech sector –  
to establish Cultivating Career Equality, a shared  
initiative that aims to challenge outdated thinking,  
unfair treatment and prejudice. Our campaign will  
address the misconceptions surrounding recruitment  
and sales environments, in order to attract and retain  
more women in our sales and leadership roles.

 

 

2.  Championing diversity  

at entry level 
 We are focussed on creating an inclusive environment  
at all levels of the organisation, however, championing 
diversity at entry level will be a key part of ensuring that  
we are attracting the next generation of diverse talent  
to our business. 

 We will ensure that our internal recruiters build candidate 
networks across all segments of the population, including 
advertising opportunities on a wider range of social media 
and recruitment platforms to ensure that they are visible 
and accessible to a diverse pool of candidates.

 

 D&I training will become even more embedded in our 
organisation and diversity awareness will form part of  
our induction process. All employees with responsibility  
for interviewing candidates will undergo unconscious  
bias training to ensure that they consider every  
applicant fairly and equally.

 

 

 

3.  Developing a culture  

of Virtuosity
 We continue to invest in our Virtuoso programme  
which recognises that it is our managers who make the 
difference in building trust, relationships and better futures 
for our clients and our people. This focus on Virtuosity 
is central to our strategy and frees our managers from 
conventional thinking so they see new possibilities  
enabling our people to thrive.

4.  Addressing  

unconscious bias
 All our people take and have access to training via our  
online learning system to help our people understand, 
identify and address unconscious bias. We also offer  
this training to our customers as and when appropriate. 
We will attract and hire more women into our business, 
especially into sales and senior roles, through inclusive 
bias-free recruitment practices such as maintaining gender 
neutrality in all of our job specifications and avoiding 
gender biased terminology. This will help ensure that 
applicants receive encouragement at every stage of the 
application and recruitment process, and are not deterred 
from pursuing career opportunities within the industry.

5.  Facilitating conversations 

around flexible working
 We are an inclusive business, and we encourage flexibility, 
including part-time work and home working. We hold 
conversations with managers through Open Blend, our 
coaching and development platform which enables us to 
explore whether personal ambitions are being met, as well 
as business objectives. By addressing the whole person, 
we will create a more engaged, productive workforce that 
allows our people to be the best versions of themselves.

5

Lorien Gender Pay Gap ReportHow we are building  
an inclusive business

6.  Mentoring for success
 Our mentoring programme provides a framework  
 
through which our people have access to business mentors 
who support them with their career and business goals.  
The programme involves pairing with a senior mentor 
and provides a platform for conversation, challenge and 
debate. Through our mentoring scheme we offer support 
to our female professionals, ensuring that they have 
positive role models and are encouraged to pursue career 
opportunities. We aim to enable more women to progress 
to senior management levels through mentoring.

7.  Clear career paths

 

 It is important to us that our people have a clear 
understanding of the career paths available to them  
and are openly encouraged and supported to reach their  
full potential. All Lorien people have a clear career path  
and we ensure that opportunities are available to all.

Lorien Gender Pay Gap Report
Lorien Gender Pay Gap Report

6
6

www.lorien.co.uk

