Gender pay gap reporting requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory 
calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees. 

 

The Grange School is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to a working environment that 
is free from any form of discrimination. We are committed to diversity and recognise as a school that 
our challenge is to increase our gender balance in the organisation, which will in turn positively impact 
our gender pay gap. 

 

Our recruitment policy seeks to employ people whose values align with those of the School and we 
engage those teachers who can truly inspire young people and support staff who can deliver our 
strategic objectives and excellent service irrespective of their gender, colour, race, ethnicity, religion, 
sexual orientation or disability. Our remuneration policy requires evaluation of roles based on 
responsibility and required competencies irrespective of gender of the job-holder. Training and 
support are offered on an equal basis to all staff to encourage career progression.  

 

At the snapshot date a total of 183 female staff and 70 male staff were considered to be “relevant 
employees”.  72.3% of our employees are female. We have females in senior roles to encourage and 
support other females in the workplace:   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Head is female,  

Our Executive Leadership Team is 50% female 

Senior School Senior Leadership team is 57% female 

Junior School Senior Leadership team is 50% female.  

The following gender pay gap calculations are based on the pay that employees received in April 
2017.  

 

The mean gender pay gap is 21.7%.  

This indicates that the mean hourly rate of pay for female employees is 21.7% less than the mean 
hourly rate for male employees. 

 

The median gender pay gap is 39.0%.  

This indicates that the mid-point of all hourly rates of pay for female employees is 39% less than the 
mid-point of all hourly rates for male employees. 

 

The percentage of males and females within in each quartile pay band is: 

Quartile 

1st  Lower 

2nd Lower middle 

3rd Upper middle 

4th Upper 

Male 

12.5% 

25.4% 

22.2% 

50.8% 

Female 

87.5% 

74.6% 

77.8% 

49.2% 

The mean and median bonus gender pay gap is 75% 

This indicates that the average bonus paid to a female employee is 75% less than the average bonus 
paid to a male member of staff. However, in the relevant period only one male and one female 
employee received a bonus and usefulness of this measure is limited.   

 
The gender pay gap shows that there is difference in the average pay of male and female employees. 
However, in the upper quartile pay band there are a similar number of male and females suggesting 
that there is not an issue with women being appointed to the most senior positions within the School.    
 
It can be seen above that there is a higher than average female to male ratio in the lower quartile 
including support roles such as cleaning, catering, playground supervision and after-school  care 
whilst there is a higher than average male to female ratio in the upper quartile which predominantly 
comprises academic staff. Therefore, the pay gap reflects the roles carried out predominantly by 
women rather than a differential in pay for the same role carried out by different genders.  
  
If we calculate the same statistics separately for SLT, Teaching, support and service staff, the mean 
and median pay gap is shown below.  
 
 

Staff Category 

SLT 

Teaching 

Support 

Service 

Mean gender 
pay gap 

Median 
gender pay 
gap 

Number 
of 
Males 

Number of 
Females 

- 17.9% 

14.5% 

6.3% 

-5.8% 

-1.8% 

11.1% 

0.8% 

0.0% 

5 

36 

24 

5 

4 

80 

64 

35 

 
 
I confirm that the data reported is true and accurate. 

 

Debbie Torjussen 

Director of Finance & Operations 

 

