Gender Pay Gap
Report 2017

ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Limited

March 2018

Introduction
UK gender pay reporting legislation requires 
employers with 250 or more employees to 
publish statutory calculations each year showing 
the pay gap between their male and female 
employees.

As a company, ConocoPhillips strives to create an inclusive 
environment that respects the contributions and differences 
of every individual, ensuring that development and 
opportunities for progression are available to all employees.

The company willingly supports the request for increasing 
transparency on this topic as it is the first step in improving 
the gender pay gap. ConocoPhillips is committed to playing 
its part in ensuring that women are given the same level of 
comparable opportunities in the workplace as men.

I confirm the accuracy of these statistics at the date of 
publishing. Publishing the statistics is the easy part – it’s 
taking action to make improvements that matters.

Terri G. King
President
ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Limited

2

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Our Approach
Closing the Gap
At ConocoPhillips, we commit to playing our part in closing the gender pay gap. 
We currently promote many cultural values and processes that positively 
contribute towards equality in the workplace. We will continue this approach, whilst 
striving to make ongoing improvements in the area.

Diversity and Inclusion
The global nature of our company reflects diversity and inclusion in everything we 
do. Our workforce represents the international communities in which we live and 
work, bringing together talented people from a variety of backgrounds and 
experiences. Valuing everyone’s contribution isn’t just something we talk about –
it’s what we seek to put into practice each day through our SPIRIT Values.

In the spirit of valuing all people, ConocoPhillips believes that diverse opinions, 
ideas and perspectives are what fuel innovation throughout our company. We 
reinforce our belief through employee and supervisor training. We strive to 
create an environment where people with diverse backgrounds can succeed.

Understanding
The gender pay gap is different than equal pay. 
The Equal Pay Act, which ConocoPhillips adheres 
to, prohibits any less favourable pay and 
employment condition between men and women 
who carry out the same or similar jobs. 

The gender pay gap is a much broader subject.
It will lead companies to actively manage levels 
of equality in the workplace and take further 
responsibility to ensure that men and women are 
provided with the same opportunities in the 
workplace.

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Flexible Working
As a company, ConocoPhillips understands the 
many responsibilities employees have in and 
outside of the workplace. We provide and support 
many flexible working arrangements within the 
organisation to ensure employees achieve a 
balance between family and work life.

Engineer
‘n Our 
Lives
Primary 
Schools 
Education
Programme

Offering flexible working opportunities at all levels 
within the organisation plays an essential part in 
tackling the gender pay gap. At ConocoPhillips UK, 
20 percent of our overall workforce have adopted 
flexible working. We will continue to support these 
opportunities and commit to an initial approach of: 
“How can we make this work?” to any new flexible 
working requests.

3

Career Development
A strong global workforce who can contribute the 
right skills in the right places contributes to the 
continued success of ConocoPhillips. Today’s energy 
industry faces two key challenges: attracting a skilled 
workforce that is equipped to do business globally 
and providing a work environment that develops and 
retains high-performing employees.

All employees, at all levels, are provided with training 
and development programmes to optimise their 
career. We aim to attract top-performing candidates 
into a supportive growth environment and to retain 
them with challenging and satisfying work.

In 2016, women accounted for 27% of ConocoPhillips 
employees globally, 17% of its top leadership and 
28% of its professional workforce.

It is important to 
mentor and support 
STEM - science, 
technology, 
engineering and 
maths – subjects in 
schools so we can 
be part of 
influencing early 
career decisions.

Sharnjit Basi
Process Optimisation Lead

“In the time I have been with ConocoPhillips, I have had many opportunities to 
broaden my skillset, which in turn has benefited the company and given me a 
rewarding career. ConocoPhillips encourages cross-functional moves, which allows 
you time to develop in your career. I have worked in the economics, operations, 
engineering and latterly the integrated operations team on a key strategic project 
and had opportunities to work in other parts of the world too.”

Recruitment
Our goal is to treat all individuals fairly throughout the recruiting process. Recruitment and selection is 
based solely on objective and job-related criteria in line with business need and ConocoPhillips global 
values, policies and positions.

Qualified applicants are considered for employment and are selected without regard to race, colour, 
religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, gender identity or 
expression, genetic information or any other legally protected status. We actively monitor and review 
our recruitment statistics and have recruitment processes in place to help hiring managers recognise 
and eliminate unconscious bias.

Since 2017, all jobs available in the UK are internally advertised. Before advertising, we consider: Is the 
job description broad enough to encourage applicants vs. narrow to target one particular employee? 
Have we kept the required skills to those truly required versus just desired, to not limit those who 
might apply? If no, can/should it be broadened to encourage a diverse mix of candidates? After 
posting, we ask the four staffing questions:

 Are we comfortable that there was a diverse mix of candidates e.g. gender, experience, educational 

background?

 Did we use an appropriate selection process (multiple/diverse interviewees, selection panel, talent 

management team candidate sourcing, internal posting)?

 Did we have enough challenge in the selection process to test for potential unconscious bias? Or did we 

select based on company fit (to mean like us)?

 Did we carry out a deep selection of candidates (beyond grade of role, beyond discipline)?

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Fay Duff
Process 
Engineer

“Whilst there have been positive changes, there is always scope for 
improvement. The more diversity you bring into an organisation, the
better the solution.”

Positive Work Environment
ConocoPhillips is committed to providing a workplace free of harassment that 
values each individual and respects their rights. Our Code of Business Ethics and 
Conduct, along with our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, sets consistent 
global standards for how we treat our employees. These include:

 Providing equal opportunities and fair treatment in recruiting, compensation, 

professional development and advancement.

 Offering training programmes and online courses to help employees and 

supervisors understand workplace policies.

 Staffing an ethics hotline, through which employees may anonymously share 

information or raise questions/complaints.

 Maintaining an open-door policy as well as formal procedures for resolving 

issues.

 Building relationships with labour organisations on the basis of mutual integrity, 

respect and open communication.

4

Supervisory Leadership & Training
ConocoPhillips provides leadership training, including a 
programme titled Appreciating Differences in Others, to 
ensure our leaders have an awareness and understanding of 
employee differences. Our leaders hold significant roles in 
creating our Inclusive culture and embracing equality in the 
workplace.

Succession Planning & Talent Management
Our talent management teams are a unique part of our 
talent development process. These teams represent 
employees around the globe and are responsible for 
managing skills critical to business success.

Each team comprises senior representatives from the 
business and corporate functional organisations. They are the 
interface between leaders, supervisors and employees.

The goal of the teams is to identify the company’s future 
business needs and to assess the availability of critical skill 
sets within the company. They also work to optimise the 
development of people with technical or highly specialised 
skills, so that talent can be shared regionally and globally to 
successfully implement key strategies. Having these teams in 
place leads to fair and robust representation of females being 
considered for and awarded development opportunities 
within the company.
Eliminating Bias
ConocoPhillips actively monitors and reviews our recruitment 
statistics as part of the recruitment process. An independent 
reviewer forms part of the internal selection meetings to help 
hiring managers eliminate unconscious bias.

Maria 
McCormack
Offshore Installation 
Manager

At ConocoPhillips, there is a real feeling of collective 
ownership for resolving engineering challenges and 
implementing solutions. Everyone, no matter what 
background or level of experience, is given the 
opportunity to take part and voice their ideas.

Throughout my career, I have been fully supported in 
terms of career development. Having gained chartered 
engineer status in an onshore engineering position, I was 
keen to develop an offshore leadership role and was 
given full support in this. Although there are still far 
fewer women in technical roles offshore, this has not 
limited me. Opportunities arise through the type of role 
an employee is passionate about, puts energy into and 
has technical competence for, regardless of gender or 
background.

Leaders hold significant roles in 
creating an inclusive culture and 
embracing equality in the workplace.

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Our Results
Mean Gender Pay Gap

Median Gender Pay Gap
Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap
Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap
Proportion of Males Receiving a Bonus Payment in 2017
Proportion of Females Receiving a Bonus Payment in 2017

• Mean involves adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result by how many numbers were in the list.
• Median involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order. The median is the middle number.
Proportion of employees in each pay quartile band
Pay Quartile
Upper
Upper Middle
Lower Middle
Lower

Female
15%
6%
22%
32%

Male
85%
94%
78%
68%

•

The proportion of male and female employees in four quartile pay bands marked from highest 
to lowest is achieved by dividing the workforce into four equal parts.

5

17.1%

28.1%
13.1%
10.3%
100%
100%

Percentage of female to male employees:

19%

Female

81%

Male

Percentage of female to male graduates 
hired in the last 5 years:

38%

Female

62%

Male

“An open culture with a positive approach to flexible working is a key part 
of the bigger picture. We have many part-time workers and a flexible 
option can offer a win-win solution. It gives a good balance of optimising 
personal circumstances, whilst continuing to make a valuable contribution 
and realising career and personal development opportunities. Equally, the 
function, and wider organisation, continue to benefit in terms of retaining 
motivated and talented individuals and their valuable experience, 
knowledge and skills.”
David Hay, UK Supply Chain Manager

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Our Action Plan   
Closing the Gap and Delivering Change
ConocoPhillips is working to close the gender pay gap. To achieve this, we 
are committed to delivering current and new resources to improve how 
we attract, engage and develop women, as well as other under-
represented groups.

Frances 
Esson
Clair Subsurface Manager

ConocoPhillips has always supported my career and role in the organisation 
irrespective of gender. From early career roles, which included working offshore, to 
leadership roles. After I had my first child, the company continued to ensure my career 
progressed, whilst allowing me flexibility in working hours and unpaid leave to 
embrace my new family. My priority is now to support my family, whilst also 
progressing my career and I feel that I have a great deal to offer the company.

6

What Caused the Gender Pay Gap? 
It is the outcome of economic, cultural, social and educational 
factors. The combination has resulted in fewer women selecting 
STEM related subjects at school and university, which has 
therefore impacted the gender balance in the oil and gas 
industry. The gender pay gap at ConocoPhillips is also 
influenced by the fact there are a greater number of men 
working in technical roles, particularly the offshore population, 
which attracts the highest pay and allowances. ConocoPhillips is 
seeing progress in this area, with women making up 38% of 
graduate recruits over the last five years and 4 of 12 board 
members being female.
Encouraging Women into STEM 
At ConocoPhillips, we support our employees’ efforts to build 
thriving and dynamic communities through our community 
investment programmes. As part of this, ConocoPhillips in the 
UK is a supporter of the STEM in the Pipeline secondary schools 
education initiative. We proactively encourage our staff to 
become STEM mentors and to engage with schools on their 
STEM projects.
We also support the Engineer n’ Our Lives primary schools 
education initiative, which seeks to teach children how 
engineering links materials to everyday things and how it is 
embedded in our everyday lives.

Diversity and Inclusion Network
Employee networks at ConocoPhillips are open to all 
employees to help us foster a diverse workforce and 
create an environment of mutual respect, trust and 
understanding.
They also connect colleagues from different business units 
and functions, provide opportunities for personal and 
professional development, networking and community 
involvement opportunities.
In 2019, we will introduce a Diversity and Inclusion network in 
the UK. Some of the topics covered will support female 
interaction and development within the organisation, aligned 
with our existing career development processes.
Inclusion is built on trust, candour and respect. It’s about 
creating a workplace where everyone can contribute to 
organisational results based on their unique talents and 
backgrounds.
We use these differences to drive competitive business 
advantage, personal growth and ultimately business success. 
Inclusion has always been part of the ConocoPhillips culture, 
influenced by our SPIRIT Values. We have an opportunity for 
further progress, embracing our diversity to enhance our 
organisation and provide a great place to work.

Introduction | Understanding | Our Approach | Our Results | Our Action Plan

Unconscious Bias Awareness
Unconscious bias occurs when our brains make quick judgements and assessments of 
people and situations without realising. Our biases are influenced by our background, 
cultural, environmental and personal experiences. When it comes to our various 
performance management processes, understanding that we have unconscious bias is 
essential to ensuring fair and transparent decisions are made. To create awareness, this 
topic features within our company’s inclusion training. We provide specific training for our 
supervisors and hold calibration meetings to ensure any unconscious biases are eliminated 
from the performance management process. 

Progressing the Potential of Our Future Leaders
ConocoPhillips commits to ensuring that there is a continued focus within the UK business 
on the development and progression of our female talent.
This will include various career support mechanisms such as mentoring and robust career 
development plans aligned with our existing career development processes.

Alexa Duncan
UK Logistics Manager
In my 11 years with ConocoPhillips, I have felt valued as a female engineer, enjoying varied and challenging 
roles from Completion Engineer, Well Abandonment Technology Lead to my current UK Logistics Manager 
position. During this time, my family has extended by two lovely boys and I have enjoyed relaxing maternity 
leaves knowing that I would have a rewarding and motivating job on my return.

Audrey Stewart
Commercial & Joint Venture Manager
During the last 20 years with ConocoPhillips, I have been fortunate to work for some inspirational leaders
and very pragmatic supervisors who have provided me with the opportunity to develop my career, whilst
preserving a meaningful work-life balance. Their flexible approach has enabled my husband and I to
successfully pursue dual professional careers and raise our girls in a happy home environment.

7

ConocoPhillips (U.K.) Limited

Rubislaw House
Anderson Drive

Aberdeen
AB15 6FZ

Tel: +44 1224 205000

www.conocophillips.co.uk

March 2018

