 

 

 

 
 
Evotec UK 
 
 

 
 
 
1.  Introduction 

 
Evotec UK´s Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Evotec is a leader in the discovery and development of novel small molecule drugs with operational sites 
in Europe and the US. The Company has built substantial drug discovery expertise and an industrialised 
platform that can drive new innovative small molecule compounds into the clinic. In addition, Evotec has 
built a deep internal knowledge base in the treatment of diseases related to neuroscience, pain, oncology, 
inflammation  and  metabolic  diseases.  Leveraging  these  skills  and  expertise  the  Company  intends  to 
develop  best-in-class  differentiated  therapeutics  and  deliver  superior  science-driven  discovery  alliances 
with  pharmaceutical  and  biotechnology  companies.  Evotec  has  offices  in  France,  Germany,  Italy, 
Switzerland, UK and US.  Our UK offices are based in Abingdon, Oxfordshire and Alderley Park, Cheshire. 
 
2.  Gender Pay Gap explained 

From 2017 onwards, any UK organisation employing 250 or more employees has to publicly report on its 
gender pay gap in six different ways: 
 

1.  Mean pay gap 
2.  Median pay gap 
3.  Mean bonus gap 
4.  Median bonus gap 
5.  Proportion of men and women who received bonuses 
6.  Number of men and women according to quartile pay bands 

 

A gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.  Equal pay is a direct comparison between individuals. It 
considers  whether  an  individual  is  paid  equivalently  to  other  employees  doing  the  same  or  equivalent 
work regardless of gender. The gender pay gap, however, shows the difference in the average earnings 
between all men and women in an organisation regardless of role or seniority. 
 
A company reporting a positive pay gap means its male employees, on average, are paid more than its 
female ones.  A company reporting a negative pay gap means its female employees are paid more than 
its male ones on average. 
 
3.  Evotec UK’s Gender Pay Gap data 2017 

We  collected  our  data  on  5th  April  2017  and  at  this  time  our  workforce  at  Evotec  UK  consisted  of  93 
women and 187 men.  The figures show that Evotec UK has: 
 
 

 

Mean gender pay gap (in hourly pay) 
Median gender pay gap (in hourly pay) 

Difference  between  female  and  male 
employees earnings at Evotec UK 
28% lower 
13.6% lower 

 
 
Evotec  UK  has  a  higher  percentage  of  male  employees  (66.8%)  than  female  employees.    Given  the 
higher proportion of male employees, there are more male than female employees in all pay quartiles at 
Evotec UK.  However, the split between male and female employees becomes greater with seniority, and 

 

 

EVOTEC UK´s Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 2 
  

therefore pay levels.  The under-representation of females at senior level is typical of the STEM sector 
and a challenge that all businesses in this sector face. 
 
 

Lower  
Quartile 

58.6% 
41 men 

41.4% 
29 
women 

Lower Middle 

Quartile 

54.3% 
38 men 

45.7% 
32 
women 

Upper Middle 

Quartile 

72.9% 
51 men 

27.1% 
19 
women 

Upper 
Quartile 

81.4% 
57 men 

18.6% 
13 
women 

 
 
4.  Evotec UK’s Gender Bonus Gap data 2017 

All  Evotec  UK’s  permanent  employees  in  the  UK  are  eligible  for  an  annual  bonus.    95.8%  of  male 
employees and 94.1% of female employees received a bonus in the relevant period for this report.  Those 
employees who did not receive a bonus were not eligible, primarily due to their employment start date 
not being within the performance year. 
 
The bonus figures show that Evotec UK has: 
 

 

Mean gender bonus gap 
Median gender bonus gap 

Difference  between  female  and  male 
employees bonus pay at Evotec 
73.5% lower 
21.3% lower 

 
 
Evotec  UK  has  several  different  bonus  schemes,  all  of  which  are  calculated  using  business  success 
measures and individual contributions.  Evotec UK’s bonus pay gap reflects the lower level of females at 
senior level where bonus is a larger component of overall compensation. 
 
A higher percentage of our leadership team are male which explains why there is a higher mean bonus 
pay gap.  Although there is a higher proportion of males to females in the higher pay quartiles, Evotec UK 
also has a significant proportion of males in the lower two pay quartiles who receive lower bonuses (see 
quartile table above).  This results in the median bonus gap being lower than the mean bonus gap. 
 
The figures are also affected by the bonus pay gap being based on actual payments received with the 
pro-ration of bonus calculations for part-time workers. Pro-ration is a contributing factor to the size of the 
reported bonus and impacts on both the mean and median bonus gap as a higher proportion of female 
employees at Evotec UK are part-time. 
 
5.  Evotec UK’s commitment to reducing the gender pay gap 

Whilst Evotec UK’s reward policy and practice is one that rewards based on market comparisons and is 
gender neutral, we offer flexible working practices to all employees and have a diverse workforce, there 
is more that Evotec can do to reduce the gender pay gap. 
 
Evotec UK is committed to reducing the gender pay gap and our UK HR team will continue to work with 
the leadership team to create initiatives to close the gender pay gap.  This will include: 
 

• 

• 
• 
• 
• 

addressing  the  under-representation  of  females  in  senior  positions  by  encouraging  female 
employees to acquire the skills necessary to move to a senior position 
proactive succession planning 
ensuring that unconscious gender bias during the recruitment process is not present 
promoting our flexible working practices to all employees 
promoting our maternity/paternity/Shared Parental Leave policies to all employees 
 

Such changes will take time to implement and we continue to work with our employees and our local 
community to raise awareness of the opportunities at Evotec UK and in the STEM sector.  
 
 

EVOTEC UK´s Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

 3 
  

 
6.  Comment 

Evotec UK’s aim is to develop best-in-class and first-in-class differentiated therapeutics on its systematic, 
unbiased  and  comprehensive  infrastructure.    To  achieve  this  aim  we  employ  a  highly  skilled,  diverse 
workforce who are recruited and developed based upon their skills, experience and ability.  We offer a 
transparent  and  inclusive  environment  that  rewards  in  a  non-gender  biased  way  based  upon  company 
and  individual  performance.    We  have  systems  in  place  to  ensure  that  our  salaries  and  bonuses  are 
reviewed, benchmarked and moderated. 
We acknowledge that Evotec UK has a gender pay gap and are committed to reducing this year on year 
by addressing our gender imbalance at senior levels and increasing awareness of current processes and 
practices that support employees in their worklife balance and their development within the organisation. 
 
I confirm that the information in this report is accurate and prepared in accordance with the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 

 

Mario Polywka 
Chief Operating Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EVOTEC UK´s Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 
 

 

