 

 

Gender pay gap report 2017 

Cox Automotive is committed to having a diverse workforce that reflects the communities it 
serves, and to fostering an environment that builds on the unique talents and perspectives of 
its team members.  
 
Cox Automotive is also dedicated to becoming an ’employer of choice’ for women, and this is 
demonstrated through its focus on empowerment, education and achievement by providing 
opportunity and equality to all its team members. It also champions a fair wage for team 
members and supply chain partners. 
 
The business’ 2017 people survey showed that 84% of team members believe people of all 
backgrounds can be successful at Cox Automotive, however addressing the gender pay gap 
will take time and there is some way to go to improve gender balance, particularly at more 
senior levels. 
 
Cox Automotive’s goal is to achieve diversity in its workforce, at all levels, by 2020. 
 
 
The gender pay gap 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay between women and men. This is 
different to equal pay, which ensures women and men receive the same pay for the same 
role.   

Gender pay gap reporting is designed to reflect the distribution and relative proportions of 
men and women across a business. It does not take into consideration the jobs that team 
members perform or their seniority.  

Cox Automotive’s report shows that women and men are paid equally when working in 
equivalent roles.  Our data also shows that we have a higher male population than female 
population, which is reflective of the automotive sector in which the organisation operates.   

 

 

 

 

 

Gender pay gap report 04/04/18 
 

 

 

 

Gender pay gap and bonus gap 

9.3% 

The mean average gender 
pay gap in Cox Automotive 

UK 

13% 

The mean average gender 
bonus gap in Cox Automotive 

UK 

 

 

 

 

2.3% 

The median average gender 
pay gap in Cox Automotive 

UK 

10.2% 

The median average gender 
bonus gap in Cox Automotive 

UK 

Of those eligible for a bonus last year, 26% were female and 46% male. 
 
Quartiles 
 
These percentages relate to the number of women and men Cox Automotive employs in 
each quartile of its population. It has proportionally more men in its top and fourth quartiles.  
By contrast it has almost an equal number of women and men in its third quartile. 
 

Top Quartile

Second Quartile

Third Quartile

Fourth Quartile

24%

76%

32%

68%

44%

56%

16%

84%

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

Driving cultural change in the automotive industry 

Cox Automotive believes that it can only improve the gender pay gap by improving the 
representation of women in the automotive industry.  Cox Automotive is addressing this 
challenge through its Women with Drive initiative which supports, develops and champions 
women in the automotive industry.   
 
Launched in 2015, Women With Drive, started out as a networking group to listen and talk 
about the challenges women face in the automotive industry.  2018 is a milestone year for 
Women With Drive, as it supported 10 female team members to climb Kilimanjaro.   
 
 
 

 
Gender pay gap report 04/04/18 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

 

 
This amazing achievement goes to the very heart of how Cox Automotive sees women’s 
contribution to the industry - by their leadership, teamwork, resilience and commitment.  The 
business celebrated their successful return on 8 March, International Women’s Day and has 
a continued commitment to #pressforprogress. 
 
Addressing the gender pay gap 
 
Cox Automotive will continue to ensure that there is no bias in the way it hires, promotes and 
develops team members. 
 
The business will also build a diverse talent pipeline by reviewing its succession plans on a 
regular basis, to ensure greater diversity, and providing mentors to support female team 
members in achieving their career aspirations. 
 
Cox Automotive will also provide greater flexibility at all levels through the introduction of 
flexible working principles and a career break policy. 
 
The business is also committed to creating new career opportunities, through expanding its 
apprenticeship programmes at all levels. 
 
Michael Buxton, CEO of Cox Automotive, said: “Cox Automotive will continue to support and 
champion equality, and aims to keep the conversation open and moving by listening to its 
team members. 
 
“I confirm that the figures in this disclosure are accurate and have been calculated in 
accordance with the gender pay gap reporting requirements as defined in the legislation and 
accompanying guidance.” 
 

 

 

 
Gender pay gap report 04/04/18 

 

 

 

 

3 
 

