UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
M&G Limited

UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
Introduction

As long-term investment managers, it’s important that 
we understand what our society needs from us – how our 
customers want to save for their futures, and how our 
long-term investments in areas like homes, energy and 
infrastructure can help transform people’s lives. And to do this 
well, our workforce has to reflect our society, in all its diversity. 
We know that more diverse teams make better business 
decisions which will help us achieve good customer outcomes.
In a genuinely diverse and inclusive workplace, all 
employees need to know they can bring their true self 
to work, that they are respected and valued for their 
differences as well as their skills, and that they have an 
equal opportunity to contribute. 

1 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

Gender pay gap reporting
The gender pay gap is a measure  
of the difference between the average 
pay and bonus of men and women 
across an organisation irrespective of 
role and seniority. 
This is different to equal pay, which  
is the legal requirement to pay the same 
to men and women who are doing work 
of equal value.

We have made some very significant efforts in a host of 
areas – some of which you can read about in this report 
– and have made a lot of progress towards achieving a 
diverse workforce, particularly at entry level, where among 
our apprentices and graduates are future generations of 
business leaders.
However, as you will see in the data on the gender pay gap 
for our UK employees in this report, we are still some way 
off achieving gender diversity at every level and in all areas 
of M&G today. The structural demographic reasons behind 
this data require serious, long-term, concerted effort to 
address. It will not happen quickly. But making this kind of 
effort is non-negotiable: our success as a business depends 
on our ability to attract, retain and promote diversity of 
talent, whether in early career, mid-career or approaching 
board level, and we will not rest until we have achieved this. 
I confirm that the information contained in this report 
is accurate.

Anne Richards
Chief Executive, M&G Limited

UK gender pay gap report 2017
Who this data includes

The data presented here is for  
all our 1,529 UK-based employees.  
The mix of men and women in  
our UK workforce is currently:

45%
Women
55%
Men

2 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

UK gender pay gap report 2017
M&G Limited’s 2017 UK gender pay gap

Fixed pay  
including salaries and cash allowances

33.2%

Bonus pay  
including bonuses and long-term incentives

83.5%

The average (mean) hourly rate of fixed pay  
received by male employees is 33.2 per cent more 
than the average (mean) hourly rate received by 
female employees.

The average (mean) value of bonus pay received 
by male employees is 83.5 per cent more than the 
average (mean) value of bonus pay received by 
female employees .

32.0%

The midpoint (median) of the range of rates  
of hourly fixed pay received by male employees  
is 32.0 per cent more than the midpoint (median) of 
the range of rates of hourly fixed pay received  
by female employees.

59.4%

The midpoint (median) of the range of the values of 
bonus pay received by male employees is 59.4 per cent 
more than the midpoint (median) of the range of the 
values of bonus pay received by female employees.

39%

Females 

Males 

95%
97%

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile
The charts below show the gender balance  
of UK employees in each pay band  
(dividing our UK employees into four equal bands):

61%

51%

Lowest

Quartile 2

49%

42%

23%

Quartile 3

Highest

77%

58%

97 per cent of male employees and 95 per cent  
of female employees received a bonus.

 Females 
 Males

3 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

UK gender pay gap report 2017
M&G Limited’s 2017 UK gender pay gap

The reasons for the gender pay gap 
These pay figures demonstrate the structural demographic 
challenges in our business and the wider investment 
management industry as a whole:
•  There are more men than women in leadership, 

investment management, sales and senior operational 
roles; and

•  There are more women than men in administrative  

and support roles.

The gap in bonus pay is higher than the gap in fixed  
pay because:
•  There are more men than women in those roles with 

higher incentive opportunities, that is, leadership,  
fund management and sales roles; and

•  Our part-time employees receive bonuses which are 

adjusted to reflect the hours that they work. However, 
this is not recognised in the calculation of the gender 
bonus gap. The majority of part-time staff are women; 
19 per cent of women work part-time compared to  
1 per cent of men.

4 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

UK gender pay gap report 2017
How are we closing the gender pay gap?

There is no single or quick solution to the structural  
gender imbalance in our business, particularly given our 
low rate of staff turnover. Sustained strategic efforts at 
all levels are required if we are to achieve meaningful and 
lasting change.
Our main areas of focus are firstly in encouraging and 
supporting women in mid-career to progress into senior 
leadership roles, and secondly, for the longer term,  
building a strong pipeline of junior female talent in 
investment and commercial areas which have  
opportunity for higher incentives.

Mid-career and senior roles
M&G became a member of the “30% Club” in 2015, 
committing to having women in at least 30 per cent  
of senior management roles by 2020. At present,  
32 per cent of our senior management cohort are women.  
Additionally, our parent company, Prudential plc, has  
signed HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter, 
committing that 30 per cent of the group’s 100 most 
pivotal roles will be held by women by the end of 2021.

5 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

UK gender pay gap report 2017
How are we closing the gender pay gap?

We have been taking a number of measures to reach  
and eventually exceed these targets for senior roles –  
which will be essential if we are to achieve the diverse 
decision making our business needs and in the process, 
improve the gender pay gap. These include:
•  Working with diversity focused search firms who go 
beyond simply providing gender-balanced long and 
short lists to help us think creatively about how we 
shape roles to attract senior female talent.

•  Trialling enhanced flexible working practices, which 
allow our people more control over when, where and 
how they work.

•  Giving prominence to senior female role models in our 
business, and to both male and female role models in 
senior roles who have flexible working arrangements.
•  Providing support for women and men returning after 
career breaks, including maternity leave, through our 
Career Returners programme.

•  Inclusive behaviour training for everyone.
•  Unconscious bias training for all senior managers  

and recruiting managers, soon to be rolled out to the 
entire business.

6 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

Ritu Vohora, Investment Director and  
Head of Equities Investment Communications, M&G:
“In my 12 years at M&G I’ve had the opportunity to work 
in various roles from product development to business 
management, collaborating with senior stakeholders on 
strategy and product launches, to portfolio construction 
and client engagement. In my current role, I have been 
empowered to create a new role dedicated to providing 
our clients with insights into the equity markets alongside 
our products. I’ve had the flexibility to shape a role that 
I’m incredibly passionate about, whilst representing and 
raising the profile of the business in the industry through 
being a spokesperson at events and in the media.”

Véronique Chapplow joined M&G  
as an Investment Specialist in the Equities team following 
a career break:
“I had had eight years away from the workplace to look 
after my four children, who are now aged ten to fifteen. 
Since joining M&G I have been amazed by how much 
support I have received: from new colleagues who went 
out of their way to welcome me, to training opportunities 
and coaching sessions. This is the first time in my entire 
career that I have been so well looked after.”

UK gender pay gap report 2017
How are we closing the gender pay gap?

Future talent
Our employee turnover is low, particularly in investment roles. 
But when opportunities do arise we need a deep pool of 
diverse talent to draw on to ensure the diversity of thought 
that is crucial to our ability to deliver for our customers.
With that in mind, we have already been working hard for 
several years at attracting talented young people from 
a broad range of backgrounds to consider careers in our 
industry, including women.
These efforts are beginning to pay off, as we now have 
a strong, gender balanced pipeline of apprentices and 
recent graduates in place within our business, who are well 
set to take leadership roles in the future.
While not letting up on our recruitment efforts at entry 
level, our challenge now is to ensure all our rising talent 
have access to equal opportunities to develop and grow to 
their full potential.
Some of the actions we have taken over the last  
few years to recruit and foster diverse young talent –  
and which we continue to develop – include:
•  Insight events for female sixth formers and university 

students to share what a career in our industry can offer, 
featuring female role models from within our business.

•  Paid summer internships for university students, 

to give them the chance to experience investment 
management from the inside and to demonstrate their 
strengths in a real-work setting.

7 

|  M&G Limited 

|  www.mandg.com

•  Recruitment from a very broad range of universities, 

without requiring any specific degree subject.

•  Rethinking our recruitment processes to reduce the 

chance of assessor bias and to give every candidate  
the opportunity to shine.

•  Mentoring and development programmes for junior 

women.

•  Our own diversity affinity networks, including a 

women’s network.

William Nicoll, Co-Head of Alternative Credit,  
M&G Fixed Income team:
“The key to fixed interest investing is understanding the  
real risk associated with any given investment opportunity.  
This is an art rather than a science, so a diversified team with 
different perspectives is of paramount importance. An open 
mind and a flexible approach goes a long way to helping a 
team to achieve this much-needed diversity of thought.”

Mohima Ahmed, 2017 graduate entry, now in a rotation 
in M&G’s Technology and Transformation team:
“I have loved every minute of my time at M&G, both as a 
summer intern and now as a graduate. It’s a really warm 
and inclusive atmosphere, and I feel I am growing every 
day in what I can do.”

