ATLAS COPCO LTD GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

To succeed, we need highly competent, creative 
and dedicated employees, and they will join 
us if they consider Atlas Copco to be a good 
employer and a responsible corporate citizen. This 
includes offering growth opportunities, preventing 
corruption and protecting the environment. 
Furthermore, we encourage diversity since this 
makes us stronger. To treat everyone with equal 
respect, regardless of gender, age or background 
is an important part of our company culture.
– Mats Rahmstrom, CEO Atlas Copco A.B

Our Organisation
Our goal as an organisation is to attract the best 
employees in every position regardless of gender. 
Diversity allows us a larger base for recruitment, to vary 
our perspectives, improve decision making processes 
and provide a more holistic view and analysis for more 
thorough problem solving. 

Gender Pay Gap Report  
In line with the new government regulations, this report 
sets out the first Atlas Copco Limited gender pay gap 
report, the reasons behind it and the steps we are taking to 
close the gaps. Atlas Copco believe this is a positive move 
to show transparency and the differences in the average 
earnings between men and women and for us to take 
informed actions to close any gender pay gaps. Providing 
equal pay for equal work is in line with the values within 
our organisation globally.

Difference in number of 
men to women employed 
in Atlas Copco Ltd

Women 22%

Men 78%

Our aim is to create a workplace that promotes and 
embraces the diversity of our employees as well as 
supporting them to achieve their own professional goals 
whilst adding value to our business performance, as well 
as respecting each other’s values and perspectives.

How Gender pay is calculated?
In order to highlight gender pay equality the UK 
Government has now laid down a requirement for all 
organisations with more than 250 employees to annually 
publish their own gender pay data which must also be 
published on the Government website.

Atlas Copco Ltd Gender Pay 

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

14.6%

13.4%

These figures show the difference between the mean 
pay gap and the median pay gap of all male and female 
employees regardless of position in the organisation 
shown as a percentage of male employees pay.

Our average pay gap is 14.6%. This is 
lower than the UK average pay gap 
which is 18.1%
*Office Of National Statistics 2016

Whist men and women are paid equally for equivalent work 
we employ close to four times more men than women and 
a higher proportion of our senior management positions 
are held by men. 

This is not an unusual statistic for an industrial engineering 
company like ours and in fact is similar in many of the 
countries we operate in around the world. 

Many of the positions we employ require qualifications in 
mechanical and / or electrical engineering and other STEM 
subjects and a large proportion of our roles require a level 
of engineering know how.

Whilst we do employ some talented women in this part of 
the workforce, the reality of the UK labour market realizes 
far fewer women available and a smaller talent pool of 
females to recruit from. Hence many of our women are 
recruited into the seemingly more female typical roles in 
finance, marketing and administration, with more of them 
employed in part time roles than the men.

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Male 89% 
Female 11%

Male 84% 
Female 16%

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

Male 77% 
Female 23%

Male 68% 
Female 33%

The charts above show the gender pay distribution 
across all UK employees based on the four pay 
quartiles (as of 5 April 2017).  There is a trend 
where men have worked at different levels in our 
organisation and men are more likely to work in 
the senior leadership positions than women. This 
is also a reflection of the nature of our business 
and the industries in which we work, but we 
realise moving towards an equal distribution of 
males and females across all levels is important.

It is important that we are able to grow female 
leaders in the same positive way as we grow male 
leaders.  We ask all our leaders to embrace their 
commitment in finding new ways and channels to 
broaden our recruitment base ensuring we have 
an inclusive culture in all our workplaces. Within 
our total workforce, currently 13% of all male 
employees are senior leaders and 10% female.

89% 89%

Proportion of Males and 
Females Recieving a 
Bonus Payment

Bonus gender pay gap
Diversity is one of 
Atlas Copco’s goals for 
sustainable, profitable 
growth. Atlas Copco always 
offer an inclusive workplace 
where employees are 
given equal opportunities 
and this includes an equal 
opportunity to participate 
in variable compensation 
programs. We have bonus 
programs for all levels of 
employees which shows our 
high percentage levels for 
both men and women.
Average (mean) male bonus earnings are 35.99% higher than 
female bonus earnings.
Average (median) male bonus earnings are 20.19% higher 
than median female bonus earnings.
We are striving to address the Gender 
Diversity Gap as we believe that diversified 
teams generate better results in the long term.
We have been working to address the gender balance 
and encouraging more women to join the Atlas Copco 
organisation which we are doing using employer branding 
geared towards potential female employees. We recognise 
that across the industrial engineering fields it is already 
well documented for its under representation of females, 
therefore we understand that we will not provide immediate 
changes however we are committed to assisting such 
change. Some of our positive actions include;

Sponsoring local female 
STEM initiatives

Conducting an Annual 
pay equity review

50% of this years Year in Industry students are female 
see more on their blog

Hosting on site Women In 
Engineering days where local 
female students are invited to 
learn more about ‘what we do’ 
and careers with Atlas Copco

Mentoring female STEM 
students at Kingston 
University with their 
Beyond Barriers scheme
learn more

Annually Celebrating International Women’s day

Atlas Copco’s Commitment
We are committed to providing and creating an inclusive place to work as 
gender diversity is key for our future and long term success.  

We can confirm the information and data in this report is accurate as of the snapshot 5 April 2017 

Kevin Prince, Director 
Atlas Copco Ltd

Joanna Heary, HR Manager
Atlas Copco UK Holdings Ltd

