Gender Pay Reporting  
(snapshot date 5th April 2017) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Introduction 
CLAAS is an agricultural machinery manufacturer whose head office is based in Harsewinkel, 
Germany.  The  global  operation  of  CLAAS  employ  circa  11,000  people.  In  the  UK  CLAAS 
operates five business units: CLAAS UK Ltd, CLAAS Manns Ltd, CLAAS Eastern Ltd, CLAAS 
Southern Ltd and CLAAS Western Ltd. 
 
As an employer, by law, we are required to carry our Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017). 
 
The regulations state that we must report the following information: 

  The mean gender pay gap  
  The median gender pay gap 
  The mean bonus gender pay gap 
  The median bonus gender pay gap 
  The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 
  The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band 

 
The Gender Pay Gap is the difference in pay between men and women spread across the 
whole organisation of CLAAS UK and our four dealers.  
 
The data used to calculate our Gender Pay Gap information is based on pay data as at the 
required snapshot date of 5th April 2017. 
 
The data used to calculate our bonus pay information is based on the 12-month period ending 
with the 5th April 2017 snapshot date. 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
The mean gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay for women compared to 
men. 
 
The median is the midpoint when you separately line up women’s pay low to high and the 
same for men. The median pay gap is the difference between the employee in the middle of 
the range of male wages and the middle employee in the range of female wages. 
 
The median is a typically more representative figure as the mean can be skewed by a handful 
of  highly  paid  employees.  A  larger  difference  between  the  mean  and  the  median  can  be 
indicative of inequality at either end of the pay spectrum. However, usually the inequality is 
most marked at the top end of the payscale. 
 
 

 

2 

 

24.7% higher for men than 

16.6% higher for men than 

MEDIAN 

women 

(The National 2017 average 
Median in the UK was 18.4% 

higher for men) 

 
 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 
GENDER BONUS PAY GAP 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEAN 

women 

 

MEAN 

women 

Equal Pay vs Gender Pay Gap 
Equal Pay refers to same pay for the same or similar work. Under the Equality Act it is illegal 
to pay people a different wage for the same job/comparable work because of gender. 
 
Gender  Pay  measures  the  differences  in  earnings  of  men  and  women  across  the  whole 
organisation. The Gender Pay can highlight where there may be barriers to women progressing 
to more senior or higher paid roles. 
 
CLAAS UK operate an equal pay policy in regard to equal pay for equal work. 
 
CLAAS UK (and linked dealerships) Gender Pay Gap Results 
 
GENDER HOURLY PAY GAP 
 

37.1% higher for men than 

5.6% higher for men than 

MEDIAN 

women 

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

3 

 

FEMALE

80.0%

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MALE

84.6%

 

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED A BONUS 

 
THE PROPORTION OF MALES AND FEMALES IN EACH QUARTILE PAY BAND 
 

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

17.5%

8.7%

82.5%

MALE

FEMALE

91.3%

MALE

FEMALE

 

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

9.7%

2.9%

90.3%

97.1%

MALE

FEMALE

MALE

FEMALE

 
Understanding our gender pay gap data 
Our population of employees consists of circa 10% female and 90% male. This statistic is 
typical of the agricultural industry as a whole. Our business is to sell and service agricultural 
machinery, with approximately a quarter of the workforce employed to service our machinery, 
we currently have one female employed in this capacity.  During our recruitment process, we 
very rarely see females applying to work in our core business positions; they apply to work in 

 

4 

 

office-based positions.  We are committed to employing the right person for the job regardless 
of gender, age, ethnicity, sexuality, disability and more.  We attend careers fairs and promote 
our opportunities equally to males and females. 
 
Our gender pay gap is not due to males and females being paid unequally for work of the same 
level and role, it is caused by there being a greater proportion of men in the organisation, 
particularly  in  positions  that  command  a  higher  rate  of  pay.  The  majority  of  females  are 
employed in lower quartile positions with very few being employed in the upper quartile.  
 
Company bonuses are awarded to both male and female permanent employees. In the main, 
our  bonuses  are  awarded  as  a  percentage  of  base  salary  and  are  related  to  company 
performance. As with the gender pay gap our bonus pay gap is again a reflection of fewer 
females working in upper pay quartile positions (the greater the salary the higher the bonus 
payment). It is also because we have a male dominant sales team, which typically attract larger 
bonus  opportunities.  Lastly,  the  majority  of  our  part  time  employees  are  women  and  the 
calculation  for  the  bonus  gap  does  not  account  for  bonuses  being  pro-rated  for  part-time 
employees. 
 
During  the  past  year,  we  have  started  to  see  an  increase  in  flexible  working  requests 
particularly from female employees who are valuing the opportunity, where business needs 
permit, to change their working week to better balance their work and home lives. Promoting 
flexible  working  is  just  one  way  that  we  can  retain  and  attract  female  employees  into  the 
workforce. 
 
The  agricultural  industry  is  traditionally  male  dominated  and  this  will  not  change  radically. 
There are no barriers to female employees progressing into senior roles within the business.  
 
Within our senior management team, the average length of service is currently 18.5 years. 
Therefore, with more female employees entering agriculture as a career, in years to come we 
should see more females in senior roles. Currently we have some female employees in the 
upper pay quartile including representation on our senior management team. 
 
Declaration 
 
We confirm that the information and data reported is accurate as of the snapshot date 5th April 
2017. 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
   
   
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

Trevor Tyrrell   
CEO 
 
 
 
 
 
Registered in England Number 467407.  Registered Office: Saxham, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk. 

Sarah Steggall 
HR MANAGER 

 
 

 
 

5 

 

