GEZE UK 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING 2017 

INTRODUCTION  

GEZE UK is a subsidiary of GEZE GmbH and is a self-sufficient company offering a complete range of 

products and services. The company has made a long term investment in staff skills and has 

considerable expertise in the door and window controls industry. 

 

• The company is required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 

Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  

 

• The regulations require reporting based on an individual employing entity with 250 or more employees. The 

first publication should be made no later than 4 April 2018 and is required to be accessible for at least 3 years 
from the date of publication.  

 

• This Gender Pay Gap Report is based on employee’s pay and bonus data as at 5th April 2017. These figures 

have been reached using the mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay gap legislation.  

 

 

 

At GEZE UK we recognize equality is one of the key pillars of a 

successful business and we are committed to treating employees fairly 

and without gender bias. 

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP 

                                                                                                  Quartile 

                                                                                                 

Our calculations show:  

•

•

•

•

•

A mean gender pay gap of 30.3% 

A median gender pay gap of 29.3% 

A mean bonus gender pay gap of 64.5% 

A median bonus gender pay gap of 52.2% 

A bonus payment was received by 97.2% of females and 42.4% of males 

 

Our analysis of comparable roles shows that we reward men and women fairly for 
similar work. The key driver behind the mean gender pay gap is that operational roles 
(Production and Technicians) and Sales roles are predominantly carried out by males. 
Whilst there is no occupational reason for male dominance in these roles we have 
identified there is a dominant male presence in the construction industry and sector as 
a whole. 
 
The second key driver reflects the lower representation of women at senior levels 
within the organisation and our difficulty in recruiting women in Operations, Technical 
and Engineering disciplines. 
 

120

100

80

60

40

20

0

Male

Female

Lower

Lower
Middle

Upper
Middle

Upper

Quartile  

Female 

Male 

Lower 

65.6% 

34.4% 

Lower Middle   Upper Middle   Upper 

31.3% 

68.7% 

6.3% 

93.7% 

7.9% 

92.1% 

ADDRESSING THE GAP/ OUR KEY FINDINGS  

Our Key Findings: 

• Males make up a significant majority of the workforce. 

•

•

A higher proportion of males are in sales occupations which typically attract 
higher remuneration.  

Females  are  seen  more  predominantly  in  functional  support  roles  which 
typically attract less remuneration than higher level positions.  

• Whilst  GEZE  UK  employ  a  number  of  females  in  senior  management 
positions  the  majority  of  these  roles  are  held  by  males.  These  are  higher 
paying roles which are typically rewarded higher with increased participation 
in bonus and incentive reward plans. 

Females make up the largest proportion of part time workers which has no 
impact  on  full  time  equivalent  pay  but  does  mean  pro-rata  payments  for 
some pay elements. This impacts bonus figures used in the calculations. 

Addressing the Gap 
 
We are confident that our gender pay gap does not reflect an equal pay issue nor 
is it related to paying males and females differently. We believe it is as a result of 
the types of roles males and females are doing in our business. This is consistent 
with the pattern seen across our industry peers and across the UK economy as a 
whole. 
 
As a wider organisation, we operate in over 31 countries employing around 2800 
people; we are committed to diversity and equality in areas which we can control 
as  a  business  and  will  continue  to  strive  to  address  the  gaps,  ensuring  policies, 
practices and processes are fair and free from bias. 
 
Unfortunately  fewer  women  study  and  work  in  construction  related  disciplines  in 
the  UK.  In  the  medium  to  longer  term  our  aim  is  to  recruit  and  develop  more 
female  employees  into  our  operations  focused  functions  as  well  as  our  Senior 
Management Team. In order to achieve this aim we will: 
 
• Support national activities from Government and education/training providers to 

•

 

  

I hereby confirm that the information provided in this report to be accurate. 

encourage increases in female participation in the construction industry. 

 

 
• We  are  satisfied  that  our  recruitment  and  retention  strategies  are  not  biased 
against  gender  but  we  will  continue  to  attempt  to  break  down  the  cultural 
tendency  that  construction  and  manufacturing  should  be  a  male  dominant 
environment  

 

 

 

 

Kaz Spiewakowski 

Managing Director 

20th March 2018 

 

