               Call us now 01212 652080    Connect with us Facebook | Twitter      Alliance Personnel  We provide recruitment to a variety of businesses. Whether you need an onsite partnership or short term assistance, we are here to help.   Client Application  Contact Our Team      Learn More              Home  Client Information   Application Form  Commercial  Professional & Permanent Appointments Client  Traffic Management  Driving  Industrial    Trainee Consultants  Recruitment Consultants  On Site Solutions  Induction & Training  Contact        Welcome to Alliance Personnel. Your Alliance for recruiting quality Personnel since 2002.    Established in 2002, our head office operates from prestigious offices located in the heart of Birmingham’s famous Jewellery Quarter. Alliance Personnel provides a tailored temporary & permanent recruitment solution to major Blue Chip companies and small local businesses alike.  +500 clients have benefited from our services and have been supplied with a varied and vast spectrum of temporary & permanent personnel and on-site partnerships. Many of these client’s have remained loyal repeat customers that regularly utilise our services year after year. This is as a result of our professionalism, trustworthiness and dependability.  Dedicated Account Managers that specialise in each sector are allocated to all of our clients. This develops an understanding of client’s specific demands, ensuring the expected high service and all KPI’s are consistently achieved.  24hr service 365 days per year. You speak directly to an experienced Recruitment Consultant familiar with your account and not a call centre designed to pass on messages.  Strict internal quality management systems are adhered to allowing us to provide you with an informed, smooth and efficient service from first contact right through to timesheets & invoicing.        Commercial  Whether you are looking for your first office assistant role or recruiting a new sales team, our consultants are equipped to help. Each year we successfully place thousands of candidates in new roles.   Learn More       Traffic Management  Our Lantra trained consultants provide nationwide TM ops 24 hours of the day. All operatives undergo industry approved training and in-house drug testing.   Learn More       Driving  Whether you’re looking for a van driver for a day or two, or a master vendor for your fleet, we have the experience you need. Phone us to find out how we do things differently.   Learn More       Industrial  We have full onsite facilities for some of the countries biigest brands, taking all staffing issues away from our clients and improving productivity through our bespoke approach. We recruit and provide a huge variety of labour, from order pickers to technicians.   Learn More           Form an alliance  For Driving and Traffic Management vacancies you can start the registration process right now, simply click 'client application' button now. We fill thousands of vacancies every year and registration couldn’t be simpler.    Client Application        Trusted by the best. We work closely with companies to find their perfect recruit.                            Useful Pages  Blog  Commercial  Traffic Management  Industrial  Driving  Polski  Drug and Alcohol Policy  Social Media Policy  Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy  Health and Safety Policy  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy  Gender Pay Gap Data  Login  Candidate Search  induction      Latest Blog Page   Blog posts coming soon.    Locate Us  Alliance Personnel,
1 Caroline Point,
62 Caroline Street,
Hockley Jewellery Quarter,
Birmingham B3 1UF  View in Google Maps     Contact Us  Main Switchboard: 0121 265 2080   Industrial (24hr): 07525 987 555   Driving (24hr): 07766 735 745   Traffic Management: 07718 565 387   Corby (24hr): 07912 044 916   Corby: 07703 823 015   Sales & Commercials: 0239 200 8686    Please note all our calls are recorded.       © 2018 Alliance Personnel. All rights reserved.    Website by Teknet Marketing                                     