GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

VALOR HOSPITALITY REPORTING ON BEHALF OF BRYANT PARK

“ We’re committed to being an 
employer that both women and 
men want to work for equally and 
I’ve been driving a better balance 
since I joined and will continue 
to do so”.

Brian McCarthy, Managing Director

Valor Hospitality Europe manage and operate hotels on 
behalf of Bryant Park Hospitality (BPH) who welcomes 
the opportunity to report on our gender pay gap. 
We are committed to diversity and equality across all 
areas of our business.

We believe that increased transparency will shine a light on areas 
where improvements can be made, which will be beneficial to 
all of our employees and to our business.

We recognise that remedying the issues brought to light, 
by gender pay gap reporting, will not be a quick fix and that 
meaningful initiatives need to be put in place to achieve 
sustained progress.

1

INTRODUCTION

THE GENDER PAY 
GAP IS DIFFERENT 

TO EQUAL PAY

The gender pay gap 

measures the difference 

in average hourly pay 
between women and 

men. Equal pay measures 

what women and men 
are paid for doing the 
same or similar work of 

equal value.

“ Our philosophy is one of inclusion, 
we are fully committed to a 
fair and inclusive environment. 
The Company will appoint, reward, 
train, develop and promote on the 
basis of merit and ability”.

Moira Laird, Human Resources Director

There are three employing entities in the Bryant Park 
group: Bryant Park Hospitality UK Limited, Bryant 
Park Employees and Services Limited and Bryant Park 
Employees and Services No.2 Limited. Out of these, 
two entities (Bryant Park Hospitality UK Limited and 
Bryant Park Employees and Services Limited) have more 
than 250 employees, which means that we are legally 
obliged to publish the gender pay gap results for these 
companies. In order to be fully transparent, we have 
additionally conducted a gender pay gap analysis of all 
three entities combined. We are electing to voluntarily 
publish these results.

A business gender pay gap is not necessarily indicative of an 
equal pay issue. An equal pay issue arises, under the Equal Pay 
Act 1971 and the Equality Act 2010, where women receive less 
favourable treatment than men in terms of pay and conditions, 
for doing the same role or “like work”, and there are no factors to 
objectively justify this disparity. 

We have conducted an Equal Pay Review of the Bryant Park 
group and we are satisfied that there are no equal pay issues 
within the business.

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

2

The Gender Pay Gap Regulations require that from April 

2018 all private and voluntary sector employers with 
250 or more employees will be required to publish on 

an annual basis: 

Overall gender pay gap figures calculated using both 

the mean and median average hourly pay; 

The numbers of men and women in each of four pay bands 
(quartiles), based on the employer’s overall pay range. This will 
show how the gender pay gap differs across the organisation, 

at different levels of seniority;

Information on the employer’s gender bonus gap, that is the 

difference between men and women’s mean and median 

average bonus pay over a 12-month period; and 

The proportion of male and female employees who received 

a bonus in the same 12 month period.

FROM

APRIL 2018

all private and voluntary sector 
employers with 250 or more 
employees will be required to 

publish on an annual basis: 

Overall gender pay gap figures 
calculated using both the mean 
and median average hourly pay

3

OUR ANALYSIS

MEAN HOURLY PAY GAP

+

+

+

+

÷

No. of female 

employees

÷

No. of male 
employees

difference

A “mean” average involves adding up all of the 
numbers and dividing the result by how many 

numbers were in the list.

MEDIAN HOURLY PAY GAP

least 
hourly 
pay

most 
hourly 
pay

The difference = median hourly pay gap

A "median" average involves listing all of the numbers in 

numerical order. If there is an odd number of results, the median 

average is the middle number. If there is an even number of 

results, the median will be the mean of the two central numbers.

Combined Analysis for all 3 employing entities 

Analysis for Bryant Park Hospitality UK Limited

Analysis for Bryant Park Employees and Services Ltd

  The Bryant Park group median gender pay gap is 3.95%

  The median gender pay gap is 2.98%

  The median gender pay gap is 0.38%

  The Bryant Park group mean gender pay gap is 11.91%

  The mean gender pay gap is 11.47%

  The mean gender pay gap is 10.14%

  The Bryant Park group salary quartiles are:

  The salary quartiles are:

  The salary quartiles are: 

SALARY 
QUARTILES

% Male 
in quartile

% Female 
in quartile

Quartile 1 
(lowest)

38.32%

61.68%

  
 

  
 

% Male 
in quartile

% Female 
in quartile

% Male 
in quartile

% Female 
in quartile

SALARY 
QUARTILES

35.52%

64.48%

51.92%

48.08%

Quartile 1 
(lowest)

Quartile 2

47.51%

52.49%

  41.86%

58.14%

55.77%

44.23%

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

48.82%

51.18%

  48.84%

51.16%

50.96%

49.04%

Quartile 3

Quartile 4 
(highest)

51.57%

48.43%

46.33%

  
 

53.67%

57.14%

42.86%

Quartile 4 
(highest)

4

OUR ANALYSIS

WHY DO WE HAVE A GENDER PAY GAP?

FEMALE REPRESENTATION IN THE WORKFORCE 

Our median gender pay gap is less than 4%. Although there is room for improvement, 
we are pleased with this result particularly when it is compared to the national and sector averages. 
We hope that our new initiatives in this area will pay off and that the gap will be even smaller 
next year. The Office for National Statistics (“ONS”) prefer to use the median figure because it is 
not distorted by a small number of higher earners within a business.

We have conducted further analysis and established that the reason for the gap is our 
General Manager population is made up of 16 men and one woman. This population are 
paid the highest salaries. We are focused on developing our own future talent General Managers 
and this development group has 29% female representative and we are committed to growing this. 
Focus groups and mentoring will assist us achieving this. This explains the reason for the mean gap 
being around 11% for each analysis.

Although the General Manager role is male dominated, it is notable that the hotel 
senior manager population, at the level below General Manager, is largely female. 
We find this very encouraging, in terms of gender representation in senior positions at our hotels. 
It also means that we have a pipeline of female talent ready to feed into our General Manager roles 
and we will work to attract those in Revenue, Finance and Sales as well as Operations Managers 
roles through this pipeline.

There is a very good level of female representation across the Bryant Park Entities with 
53.44% of the workforce being women. Women make up 48.43% of the highest paid 
salary quartile. We believe that this is partly due to us offering a large proportion of roles on a 
part-time or flexible basis. Additionally hotel work can have flexible start and finish times, in many 
instances outside of the traditional 9-5.30 office hours. These factors mean that the roles offer 
flexibility and work life balance, which is particularly important for many women as they remain 
predominantly the primary childcare providers in the UK.

MEDIAN 

gender pay gap is

less than

4%

MEAN 

gender pay gap is

around

11%

53.44%

workforce are women

WHERE DO WE SIT IN COMPARISON TO OTHER EMPLOYERS?

5

THE MEDIAN PAY GAP FOR 
ALL EMPLOYEES IN THE UK 

WAS 18.4% IN 2017

ACCORDING TO THE OFFICE OF 

NATIONAL STATISTICS (ONS)

We are pleased to report that our gap is a fifth of the national average. The ONS also 
reports on the gender pay gap by sector. The figures relevant to our sector are set out below:

Median gap

Mean gap

Accommodation and 
food service activities”

Sub-category: “Hotel and 
similar accommodation”

Sub-category: “Food 
and Beverage Activities”

5.4%

7.6%

5.0%

11.2%

11.9%

11.9%

We are satisfied that our mean gap (11.91%) is broadly in line with the sector 

average and our median gap (3.95%) is better than the sector averages.

6

BONUSES

COMBINED ANALYSIS

BRYANT PARK HOSPITALITY UK LTD

BRYANT PARK EMPLOYEES & SERVICES LTD

Women’s bonus pay is

Women’s bonus pay is

Women’s bonus pay is

25.8% lower (mean)

29.20% lower (median)

31.94% lower (mean)

15.08% lower (median)

22.46% lower (mean)

4.67% lower (median)

Who received a bonus

Who received a bonus

Who received a bonus

17.65% of men

24.78% of women

24.15% of men

17.36% of women

22.15% of men

31.96% of women

{The bonus gap for all 3 entities combined)

The majority of annual bonus scheme participants are the General Manager and in 
general the hotel senior managers. Annual bonus terms are identical for men and 
women and by all functional participation. There are established eligibility criteria based on 
hotel performance which are determined centrally and applied consistently across all hotels. You will 
be invited to participate in such a scheme if you work in a role which qualifies for it, regardless of 
your gender. The bonus scheme rules contain clear eligibility criteria and details of the way in which 
the bonus will be calculated. These rules apply equally to men and women.

As explained above, the majority of the General Manager population is male and this role attracts the 
highest bonus payments. Whereas the hotel earning incentive schemes is a low level bonus scheme, 
focusing on the departments of revenue, front office and housekeeping where the majority of the 
employee group are female. 

As far as we are aware, national average figures are not available in relation to bonus.

WHAT ACTION ARE WE TAKING TO ADDRESS OUR GENDER PAY GAP?

7

WHILE WE ARE PLEASED WITH OUR RESULTS,  
WE ARE COMMITTED TO TAKING ACTION TO CLOSE THE GAP

   Help women progress from senior manager roles to General Manager

As noted in this report we have a pipeline of female talent in Senior Manager roles. We need to 
understand what women see as the obstacles in preventing them from achieving progression to 
General Managers. We are developing and implementing strategies and actions to overcome this. 
We are working with a focus group of representatives to find fit for purpose solutions which are 
likely to include bespoke training and a mentoring programme.

   Advertising and promoting

We are rolling out new recruitment and selection skills training for hiring managers to underpin our 
existing policies on creating a fair and inclusive environment for all including gender, nationality, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or age.

   Measuring employee satisfaction at work and taking actions to improve this

   The introduction of demographic and gender analysis from the employee 
engagement survey

We hope that these outputs will assist us to measure the engagement of each group and help in the 
identification of any barriers that we will work to overcome.

   Through asking and listening to the business to understand what we can do better

Each hotel business and the Company has a formal Consultative Forum made up of representatives, 
where employees can raise concerns and propose ideas.

