 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 4  

Doc Ref: June 2017 

27.5032.55+15.52%18.2420.01+8.84%2288.636412.89+64.31%1717.124797.50+64.21%54.35%255426.73%Powered byOutset (UK) Limited Copyright 2017Gender Pay Gap ReportQuartilesMean Average Hourly RateMedian Average Hourly RateMean Average Bonus PayMedian Average Bonus PayBonus Pay ProportionsFemaleMale0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%1 - Lower2 - LowerMiddle3 - UpperMiddle4 - Upper32%7%10%20%68%93%90%80%FemaleMale 

 

 
CLH-PS are required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 
 
This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017: 
 

•  The mean gender pay gap for CLH-PS is 15.5%. 
•  The median gender pay gap for CLH-PS is 8.8%. 
•  The mean gender bonus gap for CLH-PS is 64.3%. 
•  The median gender bonus gap for is 64.2%. 
•  The proportion of male employees in CLH-PS receiving a bonus is 54.4% and the proportion 

of female employees receiving a bonus is 26.7%. 

 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band 

Females  Males 

Description 

A 

B 

C 

32% 

68% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly  rate  places 
them at or below the lower quartile 

7% 

93% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly  rate  places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

10% 

90% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly  rate  places 
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

D 

20% 

80% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly  rate  places 
them above the upper quartile 

 
The  figures  set  out  above  have  been  calculated  using  the  standard  methodologies  used  in  the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
What are the underlying causes of CLH-PS's gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

the same or broadly similar work; 

• 
•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 
•  work of equal value. 

 
CLH-PS is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees, 
regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual  orientation,  gender  reassignment  or  disability.  It  has  a  clear  policy  of  paying  employees 
equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out 
above). As such, it: 
 

carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals; 

• 
•  provides  regular  equal  pay  training  for  all  managers  and  other  staff  members  who  are 

involved in pay reviews; and 

•  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

 

 

Page 2 of 4  

Doc Ref: June 2017 

 

 

 
CLH-PS is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in 
which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 
 
Across  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole,  men  are  more  likely  than  women  to  be  in  senior  roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men to 
be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are more likely to be in 
technical and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of 
seniority. Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected 
their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part 
time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low 
paid. 
 
This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of CLH-PS's workforce, 
where  the  majority  of  front-line  customer  assistants  within  its  stores  are  women,  while  the 
majority of line manager and senior manager roles are held by men. In addition, the majority of 
the relatively highly paid e-commerce roles are held by men and not women. 
 
This  can  be  seen  above  in  the  table  depicting  pay  quartiles  by  gender.  This  shows  CLH-PS's 
workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A including 
the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% 
(the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal 
ratio of men to women in each Band. However, within CLH-PS, 32% of the employees in Band A are 
women  and  68%  men.  The  percentage  of  male  employees  is  higher  throughout  the  remaining 
Bands (between 80% and 93%) 
 
How does CLH-PS's gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say that 
CLH-PS's  gap  compares  favourably  with  that  of  other  organisations,  including  those  within  our 
industry.  Furthermore, it is currently lower than the UK average for hourly pay. 
 
The mean gender  pay  gap for the  whole economy (according to the November 2016 Office  for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.5%, while in the 
manufacturing  sector  it  is  29.4%.  At  15.5%,  CLH-PS's  mean  gender  pay  gap  is,  therefore, 
significantly lower than both that for the whole economy and that for our sector. 
 
The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the November 2016 ONS ASHE 
figures) is 18.1%.  At 8.8%, CLH-PS's median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than 
both that for the whole economy and that for our sector. 
 
The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender bonus gap for CLH-PS are relatively large at 
64.3%  and  64.2%.  However,  the  proportion  of  men  at  CLH-PS  who  received  a  bonus  in  the  12 
months up to 5 April 2017 was 26.7%, while for women this was 54.3%. This reflects the higher 
proportion of women in the management and technical roles that, under our current policy, attract 
a performance bonus. 
 
What is CLH-PS doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While  CLH-PS's gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations both across the 
whole UK economy and within its sector, this is not a subject about which CLH-PS is complacent, 
and  it  is  committed  to  doing  everything  that  it  can  to  reduce  the  gap.  However,  CLH-PS  also 

 

Page 3 of 4  

Doc Ref: June 2017 

 

 
recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct control over 
the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make. 
 
To date, the steps that CLH-PS has taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce 
include the following: 
 

•  Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities 

for action, in 2016 CLH-PS introduced gender monitoring to understand: 

 

o 
o 
o 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited; 
the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions; 
the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for 
leaving; 
the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band; 

o 
o  on from a return to work after a period of maternity or other parental leave. 

 

•  Revising  the  flexible  working  policy:   CLH-PS's  flexible  working  policy  has  been 
substantially  revised  to  make  it  clear  that  employees  in  all  areas  and  levels  of  the 
organisation will be considered for flexible working regardless of their role and level of 
seniority,  and  that  flexible  working  need  not  be  limited  to  part-time  working.  This  was 
backed up by an ongoing publicity drive.  

 
• 

Supporting  parents: CLH-PS  has  developed  guidelines  for  managers  on  supporting 
employees prior to, during and on return from maternity and other parental leave, this is 
being backed up by managers training. 

 
None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before  some  have  any  impact  at  all.  In the meantime,  CLH-PS  is  committed to  reporting on  an 
annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 
 
Right now, CLH-PS-PS has plans to extend its evidence-gathering to include qualitative data. It will 
do this through a consultation exercise across all areas and levels of the organisation to identify 
the barriers (and the drivers) for women employees. 
 
In the coming year, CLH-PS is also committed to: 
 

•  Reviewing its recruitment processes to ensure we are not unintentionally excluding female 

applicants from all our roles 
reviewing its policy on Appraisals 
reviewing it policy on reward and recognition; 

• 
• 
•  promoting flexible working for all our employees; 

 

 
Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the company intranet. 
 
I, Nacho Casajus, CEO, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 
 
Signed 
 
 
Date 
 

 

Page 4 of 4  

Doc Ref: June 2017 

