RISK   |   PENSIONS   |   INVESTMENT   |   INSURANCE

Reporting the  
UK Gender Pay Gap

Our analysis  |  April 2017

What is the 
gender pay gap?

The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference 
between the average earnings of men and women 
across an organisation. Reporting on the gap is a 
legal requirement in the UK.

At Barnett Waddingham, our ambition is to be a successful 
business, providing high quality independent solutions to help 
our clients understand and manage their financial risks and 
business uncertainties.

We are driven by the core belief that our people are the lifeblood of our business. They have the 
ability to add value to our clients and to ensure success for the firm in the long-term. 

By harnessing a truly diverse and inclusive culture, we believe this will act as an enabler for our people 
to flourish and grow. 

The best teams are those of high challenge and high support. We can only achieve this if we embrace 
the skills that women can bring to our business. Equality of pay across genders has always been 
important to us, but the work on gender pay challenges whether we can do more to ensure everyone 
has the same opportunities to progress to senior roles. 

Women currently make up 29% of leadership and senior management roles.

In this report, we provide our gender pay gap information; identify the causes and outline the actions 
we are taking to ensure we support women in their career choices. These include the development of 
smart working, tailored development and on-boarding when returning from a substantial period  
of leave. 

We are committed to continue to deliver opportunities for women to ensure Barnett Waddingham is 
a place where women want to join and where they thrive equally with their colleagues, based on their 
choice and merit, and not on any unconscious bias. 

JANE GALVIN
Partner and Chief Operating Officer

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     3

About us

Values

We are proud to be a leading independent UK consultancy at the forefront of risk, pensions, 
investment and insurance. 

Our values are critical to the functioning of the firm and it is important that our employees 
and partners act within these values on a day to day basis.  

From small beginnings with just 20 people, our total 
headcount is now over 1,000 (including 68 partners and 99 
associates) – with offices in eight locations around the UK. 
We act for a wide range of clients, large and small, in both 
the private and public sectors including 15% of FTSE350 
firms with a defined benefit pension scheme. Initially the firm 
provided actuarial consultancy only, and we have worked 
hard to diversify our services, bringing in employees with 
different skills to enhance our offering. 

We continue to grow through referrals from professional 
contacts and our existing clients. Our primary focus is to 
continue to provide the personal, quality, tailored approach 
that has made us successful and has led to our high level 
of client retention.  We seek to build stable and long-term 
working relationships with clients, supported by happy, 
motivated staff.

Principled
We are committed to maintaining our high ethical standards whilst considering the impacts on all 
our stakeholders. We behave in a manner that demonstrates our honesty, conviction, pride and 
responsibility to keep our promises.

Quality
We don’t compromise on quality; excellence is the norm across our whole business.

Partnership
We work collaboratively and encourage both individual excellence and teamwork within our business. 
Our unified approach ensures we are working together toward the same goals and desired outcomes.

Respect
We recognise and respect the value of everyone’s contribution to our success, honouring our diversity 
and the positive effect we have on our communities and the environment.

We believe that we will be more successful if we work together to achieve our common 
objectives than working alone.  If there is success, we all share in it - and if there is a problem,  
then we are all responsible for putting it right. We work to help all of our people achieve their 
ambitions - whatever work-life balance they strive for - so we are all working together for the 
benefit of our clients. 

In this report, we provide our gender pay gap, identify the causes of the pay gap and outline our plans for  
closing this gap.

4     Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     5

Measuring the pay gap

Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish 
statutory calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and 
female employees. 

The regulations require us to report on our employee 
population as at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. Our 
organisation is structured as a partnership and, in line with 
the regulations, the partners are not included in the gender 
calculations; partners are not employed and as such have a 
different remuneration structure.   However, we appreciate 
it is important to be open and transparent about the gender 
pay gap and have therefore analysed these figures too  
which are shown below the employee data

Gender pay reporting is different  
to equal pay. Equal pay deals with 
the pay differences between men 
and women who carry out the  
same jobs, similar jobs or work 
of equal value. It is unlawful, and 
against our belief to pay people 
unequally because they are a man 
or a woman. 

Mean and median gender pay gap 

Women’s hourly rate is:

The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly 
rates of pay that male and female employees receive. This 
gives an overall indication of the gender pay gap by taking all 
hourly rates of pay and dividing by the total number of people 
in scope.

The median gender pay gap shows the difference in the 
midpoints of the ranges of hourly rates of pay for men and 
women by ordering individual rates of pay from lowest to 
highest and comparing the middle value.

MEAN

MEDIAN

17%

LOWER

11%

LOWER

Mean and median gender bonus gap

Women’s bonus pay is:

The mean gender bonus gap is the difference in average 
bonus pay that male and female employees receive. 

The median gender bonus gap shows the difference in the 
midpoints of the ranges of bonus pay received by men  
and women.

MEAN

MEDIAN

31%

LOWER

27%

LOWER

Proportion of males and females 
receiving a bonus 

This is the percentage of men and women who received 
bonus pay in the 12 months leading up to the snapshot date of 
5 April 2017.

Proportion received bonus pay

MALE

FEMALE

76%

79%

6     Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     7

Measuring the pay gap

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile 

This is the percentage of male and female employees in four quartile pay bands,  
(dividing our workforce into four equal parts).

Upper quartile

Upper middle quartile

Partners
Including partners in the analysis makes a large difference to 
the pay gap because (at 5 April 2017) we have 50 male partners 
and 12 female partners.

This pay gap analysis excludes two other partners on maternity leave at that time

Mean and median gender pay gap  

Women’s hourly rate (partners only) is:

Women’s hourly rate (employees and partners) is:

65%

35%

48%

52%

12%

LOWER

9%

LOWER

47%

LOWER

23%

LOWER

Lower middle quartile

Lower quartile

48%

52%

39%

61%

Male

Female

MEAN

MEDIAN

MEAN

MEDIAN

“ Including data on partners, although not required, is important to 

ensure our gender pay figures are open and transparent. We believe 
it is important to the success of our business to ensure we have good 
diversity across the business, including at the most senior levels. 
The gender pay reporting requirement has helped us focus on these 
challenges and encourage open debate at partnership level on how 
we improve this. This report outlines some of our initiatives already 
underway and throughout 2018 we will revisit these and determine 
what else we can do.”

MARCUS WHITEHEAD
Managing Partner

8     Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     9

Why do we have a gender pay gap?

We have a gender pay gap because there are more men in senior roles in the organisation. 
While women make up 49% of our organisation (including partners), at our most senior 
levels we have 71% men to 29% women. We believe that this is due to three main factors:

Gender bonus gap
With respect to our median bonus 
pay gap, this is driven in part by two 
factors: a higher proportion of men 
than women in Associate positions, 
as bonus targets are higher for these 
roles. The second factor is that a 
larger proportion of men are in 
consulting roles than women and 
these roles generally attract higher 
levels of annual incentives in line 
with the market.

History of actuarial profession

We were predominantly actuarial at the outset, and during the 
early years of the firm, the majority of members of the actuarial 
profession were males (this has changed more recently). Whilst 
the make-up of the firm is more diverse now, the more senior 
roles in the firm are largely filled by actuaries. The actuarial 
profession is working on promoting gender equality at all 
levels. We are actively contributing to that work, as we believe 
it important for the profession.

Our administration functions

Conversely in our administration functions - which make up 
40% of our business - a greater proportion of women than 
men are employed.  These roles are accountable for the 
majority of roles in the lower, and lower middle quartile of pay.

The choices our employees have made

In addition, we need to acknowledge the choices our 
employees have made. Proportionately more of our female 
employees choose to have career breaks and work part-time. 
This is not a barrier to progression, but for some the choice is 
for a less demanding role too. We are happy to support our 
people in their choices.

What action are we taking?

Meaningful change takes time and we know we need to continue to drive this from the top 
of the organisation. We’ve outlined some of the steps we are taking so far to address our 
gender challenges.

New ways of working 

As a result:

We have recently introduced ‘Smart Working’ to support our 
growth and ensure that we are continuing to work in the most 
efficient and effective way, benefitting our clients and ensuring 
that Barnett Waddingham is a great place to work. 

Smart Working is an approach to organising work that aims to 
drive greater effectiveness through a combination of flexibility, 
autonomy and collaboration, in parallel with optimising tools 
and working environments. It is about looking for the most 
effective and efficient ways of working that not only benefit 
the individual but also deliver benefits to clients without any 
drawbacks to colleagues or the firm.

Our employees responded to a “Future Workplace” 
questionnaire which has helped us to understand the gaps 
between how they want to work and how well their needs are 
being met by our current working environment and policies. 

•  We have made a number of changes in 

office design and the level of technology 
available (including laptops and a new 
integrated telephone system), to support 
working outside the normal office 
environment.  

•  We have introduced a number of 

changes to our working practices, which 
enable more flexible working and enable 
employees to get a better work/life 
balance. Smart Working is a conscious 
mind-set whereby all our people think 
about how and where they can best 
deliver to the needs of our clients,  
their colleagues and of course their  
own needs.

•  We are reviewing how we deliver 

training and development to enable our 
people to access these in line with an 
agile workforce and therefore ensuing 
these opportunities are open to as many 
employees as possible.

10     Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     11

Here at Barnett Waddingham our values, culture and ethos are very important to us and are 
well understood throughout the organisation

We are committed to ensuring we continue 
to manage our gender challenges. Our 
people strategy is focussed on a number of 
initiatives which support this, including:

•  New ways of working

•  Talent management

•  Recruitment and retention

As our workforce grows we will need to ensure that the 
environment continues to embody our commitment to 
equality and diversity and that through our actions we 
promote a positive and inclusive culture; where people are 
supported to develop and grow with respect and dignity - 
and where we continue to ensure appropriate behaviours 
displayed at  all times towards each other.

We recognise the importance of ensuring all employees are 
seen as making a valued contribution to the success of the 
organisation, working in highly effective and collaborative 
ways to create a dynamic, flexible and appropriately 
paced working environment where there is a true sense of 
professional fulfilment. We are mindful of the need to achieve 
a fair work-life balance, ensuring equitable workloads and 
continuing to support employees in looking after their  
own wellbeing.  

JACQUI DERRICK
Associate and Head of Human Resources

Talent management 

Exemplary leadership and management skills form an essential 
part of fulfilling our ambitions.  We believe that we have the 
right structures in place to support all our people in their 
development and choices, but we are taking this opportunity 
to check this, and ensure that there are no unintentional 
barriers in place. 

•  We have set up a Talent Management Board to oversee 

the development of those with potential at all levels. 
This has resulted in specific development programmes 
being devised along with external coaching and internal 
mentoring. This is to not only ensure our people are 
clear on expectations but understand how they can best 
develop with individual and tailored plans put in place.

•  There is a formal process to ensure fair and appropriate 
promotion to senior levels.  We have worked hard over 
the last year to make improvements to this through our 
Talent Management Board.  

•  We are supporting the progression of women within 

the actuarial profession through a new mentoring 
programme, Moving Ahead; designed to improve 
diversity at senior levels.  This is being driven by the 
external actuarial professional body, IFoA; with Barnett 
Waddingham playing a key role.

In addition, we have many other activities 
designed to support the careers and 
development of all employees throughout 
the organisation:

•  We are working with the partnership 

to achieve greater diversity among our 
leaders. We recognise the need to avoid 
‘Group Think’ amongst our most senior 
leaders.  We are working with partners 
to ensure diversity of thought in order 
to build teams to deliver the best results.  
Diversity of gender is a key part of this 
approach.

•  We will continue the work we have 

started in developing our competencies 
and role profiles and will ensure 
these are developed at all levels so all 
employees understand what is required 
from them. Career paths are helping us 
in demonstrating how everyone can 
progress.

•  We are developing a talent management 
strategy which will enable us to manage 
individual’s careers. This supports 
retention and development and 
will assist in facilitating a more agile 
workforce centred on the individual’s 
particular strengths and career potential. 
It will also allow for further planning 
in terms of an ongoing evaluation of 
workforce capabilities, identifying any 
gaps, and putting in place organisation-
wide development plans.

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     13

Recruitment and retention

As a growing business, recruiting and retaining the right people is a vital part of our people strategy. Rewarding new 
and existing employees fairly plays an important role in supporting this objective and ensuring our people continue 
to be at the centre of what we do. 

•  Removing bias, of any type, in recruitment is addressed 

•  Supporting employees who have taken 

through recruitment training for assessors.  We are 
continuing to extend this training for all employees 
involved in the recruitment process.  In addition, we will 
shortly be introducing an applicant tracking systems for 
all our recruitment which will again aid reduction of bias 
as personal data is removed from the screening process.

•  We have a formal graduate and summer internship 

recruitment programme to bring employees into our 
student actuarial roles.  We work hard to ensure that we 
get a good balance of candidates as we recognise these 
new entrants bring fresh thinking and challenge to our 
organisation.

•  We are reaching out to secondary schools from a cross-

section of the local community to raise awareness of our 
new apprenticeship scheme and encourage applicants 
of all backgrounds.  

career breaks (particularly following 
maternity absence) has been the subject 
of a recent review to ensure the return to 
work is successfully managed as part of 
the on-boarding process. We are looking 
into the recommendations to improve 
this and will be introducing these over 
the coming months.

•  We are committed to ensuring that our 
remuneration packages are appropriate 
for the role and recognise skills and 
experience. We review all pay awards 
for consistency and fairness across 
the organisation. In addition, we are 
undertaking a review of our benefits 
package to ensure it is balanced for the 
needs of all.

A few words from our Senior Partner

People are at the heart of our business and we are exceptionally proud of our loyal staff who 
are committed to delivering an efficient and effective client service.

People who join Barnett Waddingham tend to stay, thriving in a professional learning environment 
and caring, friendly culture.

An important component of this culture is ensuring we have a fair remuneration and reward structure 
in place, alongside ensuring our people strategy supports and develops all individuals. We are 
confident that we pay men and women equally for doing the same work and we believe that we will 
narrow the current gender pay gap over time by our commitment to diversity and by continuing to 
work on developing all our staff. I am pleased with the steps we are taking to support all our staff but 
we will continue to challenge ourselves to make this organisation the best it can be, going beyond 
the expectations of both our clients and our staff.

NICK SALTER
Senior Partner

Declaration
We confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

NICK SALTER
Senior Partner

JACQUI DERRICK  
Associate and Head of Human Resources

14     Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017

Reporting the UK Gender Pay Gap  |  5 April 2017     15

www.barnett-waddingham.co.uk

   info@barnett-waddingham.co.uk       

    0333 11 11 222    

Barnett Waddingham LLP is a body corporate with members to whom we refer as “partners”. A list of members can be inspected at the registered office. Barnett Waddingham 
LLP (OC307678), BW SIPP LLP (OC322417), and Barnett Waddingham Actuaries and Consultants Limited (06498431) are registered in England and Wales with their registered 
office at Cheapside House, 138 Cheapside, London EC2V 6BW. Barnett Waddingham LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is licensed by the 
Institute and Faculty of Actuaries for a range of investment business activities. BW SIPP LLP is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Barnett Waddingham 
Actuaries and Consultants Limited is licensed by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries in respect of a range of investment business activities. 

