GENDER PAY 
GAP  
REPORT 

WELCOME TO OUR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

For the first time, all UK companies employing 250 people or more are required to report on 
their gender pay gap.

We welcome the opportunity to publish our information, as we believe that it is important for 
all companies to be transparent about pay, and that by doing this, progress will be made in 
bridging the pay gap that exists in the UK today.

At British Pepper and Spice promoting equality and diversity amongst our workforce is a  
priority and our approach to recruitment, development and reward & recognition of our teams 
supports us on our journey to becoming an employer of choice. 

There is still more to do and over the coming years we will continue to do the right things 
to address any gender pay gap at all levels. Continuing to have a truly diverse and  
inclusive company is not only the right thing to do, it is crucial to helping us grow,  
attract talent and engage the people who buy our products.

Rachael Bouch 
Managing Director

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP? 
The Gender Pay Gap is the difference in pay between men and women explained through various statistics. 
It is influenced by a range of factors, including the demographics of a company’s workforce. 
The gender pay gap is different from equal pay, ’Equal Pay’ is about a man and a woman receiving equal 
pay for the same or similar job. 

OUR RESULTS 
GENDER PAY GAP 

21.6% Mean
The mean pay gap is the  
difference in the average hourly 
pay for women compared to men, 
within a company. 

14% Median
The median represents the middle 
point of a population. If you lined up 
all the women in a company and all 
the men, the median pay gap is the 
difference between the hourly pay 
rate for the middle woman compared 
to that of the middle man. 

This means pay for men is 21.6% 
higher than that of women  

The median pay for men is 14% 
higher than that of women. 

Our gender pay gap is due to the structure of our workforce. As a food manufacturing business, 
more than 80% of the people we employ work in our factories, where the balance of the workforce is 
male (62:38). This means our gender balance is uneven and because people don’t leave us very 
often, it takes time to reshape this. 

Men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business, so the gaps 
are not indicative of equal pay issues within our organisation. Our results are shaped by 
the large proportion of male workforce we have versus any implicit inequity.

GENDER PAY BONUS GAP 
The mean bonus pay for men is 67% higher than that of women. 
The median bonus pay for men is 16% higher than that of women. 

Our gender bonus gap is primarily driven by the fact we pay all our employees a  
bonus, including our employees who work in our factories, where, the balance of our 
workforce is predominantly male. We do also have more men than women on our 
leadership team, and these colleagues attract a higher level of bonus. 

POPULATION OF 
MEN AND WOMEN 
PAID A BONUS

98%
of women received 
a bonus

86%
of men received 
a bonus

POPULATION BY PAY QUARTILES 
Quartiles represent the pay rates from the lowest to the highest for our employees, split into four equal 
sized groups, with the percentage of men and women in each quartile. 

26% 

FEMALE 

35% 

FEMALE 

39% 

FEMALE 

43% 

FEMALE 

74% 
MALE 

65% 
MALE 

61% 
MALE 

57% 
MALE 

UPPER

UPPER 
MIDDLE

LOWER 
MIDDLE

LOWER

A VIEW TO THE FUTURE
To support our commitment to reduce our gender pay gap, our Diversity Strategy is being developed, 
to further ensure a workforce that is representative of the community and marketplace that BPS are 
operating within. This includes: 

• Recruitment - Exploring the use of tools such as digital platforms, unconscious bias and 

language in attraction and selection, as well as boosting investment in apprentice and 
graduate outreach, with a focus on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics 
(STEM)

• Career Progression - Every employee to have a development focused career 

conservation, alongside succession plans. Also undertaking a job evaluation programme 
across the site that reinforces our clear and transparent payment methodology
and that promotes clear routes of progression at all levels in the business.

• Our Culture - Review of flexible working practices to ensure these are agile and industry 

leading. Improving and increasing our communication of our policies
through a robust communication strategy. 

