 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 

Gender  pay  gap  reporting  requires  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  to  publish 
statutory calculations every year showing the pay gap between male and female employees. 
The period covered by this report is of a snapshot of the data taken on 31 March 2017. 

What is a Gender Pay gap? 

Gender pay gap differs from equal pay. Hartpury has undertaken Equal Pay Audits which have 
demonstrated there were no significant gaps. 

Whilst equal pay deals with the differences between men and women who carry out the same 
jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value, gender pay gap shows the differences in the average 
pay between men and women. 

Our Gender Pay Gap 

The mean hourly rate of pay for all male full-pay relevant employees is £13.39. The mean 
hourly rate of pay for all female full-pay relevant employees is £13.10. The median hourly 
rate of pay for all male full-pay relevant employees is £11.92. The median hourly rate of pay 
for all female full-pay relevant employees is £12.13. 

 

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

2.1% 

-1.6% 

 

 

The current national average mean gender pay gap is 18.1% and the current national median 
gender pay gap is around 9.1%. 

Our Bonus Pay Gap 

 

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

60% 

-25% 

 

 

The bonus gender pay gap includes any recognition payment made by an organisation. For 
Hartpury, this is mainly driven by our long service award. Other than that type of payment, 
one off bonuses are given infrequently to a very small number of individuals and this can have 
a major impact on the % pay gap (purely looking at bonus payments). There are 18 females 
who received long service awards and 11 males who received long service awards. 1 male 
received a performance related payment during this period. However no females received a 

performance related payment during this period. As a result of this, the mean bonus payment 
for  females  is  £125  and  the  mean  bonus  payment  for  males  is  £316.  The  median  bonus 
payment for females is £125 and the median bonus payment for males is £100. 
 
The proportion of employees who receive a bonus are as follows: 
 

Male 

Female 
 

4.74% 

 

Quartiles 

5.5% 

 

In line with the regulations, employers need to report on the proportion of male and female 
employees in each of four pay bands, where Lower Quartile represents lowest salaries Upper 
Quartile represents the highest salaries. 

The proportions of males/females in each quartile pay band is as follows: 

Lower Quartile 

48% 
52% 

Lower Middle 
Quartile 
38% 
62% 

Upper Middle 
Quartile 
38% 
62% 

Upper 
Quartile 
44% 
56% 

 

Male 
Female 

 

Context 

A key strand of Hartpury’s Mission is to ensure that Hartpury provides an inclusive learning 
and working environment for its students and staff so that all develop to their full potential. 
To embrace Hartpury’s vision of equity and access, we want to ensure that equality, diversity 
and inclusivity is an integral part of Hartpury’s practices and is embedded in all that we do. 
We  have  strived  to  build  an  enabling  environment  free  from  prejudice,  discrimination  and 
harassment  by  supporting  the  diverse  and  cultural  needs  of  staff  and  students.  We  are 
committed to training all staff to ensure that they are aware of their equality, diversity and 
inclusivity  obligations.  Under  the  Equality  Act  2010,  the  College  has  a  general  duty  to 
eliminate  unlawful  discrimination,  harassment  and  victimisation,  advance  equality  of 
opportunity and foster good relations between people who share a relevant characteristic and 
persons who do not. 

Our academic salary scales ensure that we remunerate staff fairly for the same role, like work 
and work of equal value regardless of their role within Hartpury. The salary structure contains 
a number of spine points within each band. Advancement through the band is based on a 
number of set criteria. Under this framework staff who have held a role for a longer period 
are more highly remunerated within that band for their work; and this remuneration reflects 
the experience that they have gained in undertaking their role. 

Hartpury  is  confident  that  males  and females  are paid equally  for doing  the  equivalent  or 
same job and this has been demonstrated in our equal pay audits. Hartpury ensures that we 
have  policies  and  procedures  in  place  that  are  fair  to  all  and  will  continue  to  monitor  the 
impact of these policies in terms of our gender pay gap. 

It should be noted that within Hartpury there are curriculum areas that are more difficult to 
recruit to than others, and this is reflective of the position nationally. Such areas include Land 
based subjects. Such roles predominantly attract male applicants and again this is reflective 
of gender imbalances that exist in these areas nationally. Hartpury actively encourages female 
staff (and vice versa with males in female dominated environments) to apply for jobs in what 
are still seen to be traditionally male dominated roles and we have had success in doing this 
recently.  

