	

 

Quartiles  Number  %ge 

66 
19 
63 
23 
60 
25 
40 
45 

77.65% 
22.35% 
73.26% 
26.74% 
70.59% 
29.41% 
47.06% 
52.94% 

Gender Pay Report 2017/18 
 
RGS Worcester is happy to present its first Gender Pay Report, to ensure it discharges its legal 
obligations under the legislation enacted in April 2017 in full.  In order to set the scene and context 
fully, gender pay reporting legislation requires all organisations with 250 or more employees to 
publish  annually  a  report  of  the  gender  pay  gap.  RGS  Worcester,  RGS  The  Grange  and  RGS 
Springfield employ in excess of 250 teaching and support staff, hence great consideration has been 
given in meeting the legislative requirements. 
 
In full compliance with the legislation, the RGS salary and bonus data used to compile the report 
applies to all employees on the payroll on 5 April 2017, the “snapshot date”. Accordingly, any staff 
members working at RGS Worcester at the time and who have since left are included in this data. 
In line with legislation, the data does not include the genuinely self-employed or those who were on 
maternity and paternity leave on the snapshot date. The total number of staff included in the data 
are 111 males and 230 females. It is also important to be aware that bonuses are paid on individual 
performance and are discretionary. This means that bonus application could vary significantly from 
one  year  to  the  next.  The  resulting  bonus  data  is  therefore  not  particularly  useful  in  providing 
meaning in the context of RGS Worcester. 
Our figures have been ascertained using the mechanisms that are set out in the Gender Pay Gap 
reporting legislation. There is no legal obligation for employers to publish a narrative explaining their 
Gender Pay Gap figures. However, as an organisation RGSW has decided that due to the way in 
which the data must be presented, it is helpful to all those who come into contact with RGSW to 
have explanatory information. Therefore, the Governors and Senior Leadership Teams hope that in 
providing this information you are assured and have the full context of the Schools’ current position. 
There are six key metrics which must be reported on. These, along with our results are as per the 
below. We strongly advise that the results are read taking into account the explanations provided 
in this document. 
 
1. Difference in mean hourly rate of pay: 20.7% 
 
2. Difference in median hourly rate of pay: 22.2% 
 
3. Difference in mean bonus pay: 3.9% 
 
4. Difference in median bonus pay: -75.2% 
 
5. Proportion of male and female employees who received bonus pay: - 

 

 
RGS: - Male - 5/111 = 4.5%.   Female – 1/229 = 0.4% 

 
6. Proportion of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands: - 
 

 
Female  Q1 
Male 
Q1 
Female  Q2 
Male 
Q2 
Female  Q3 
Male 
Q3 
Female  Q4 
Male 
Q4 

	

 

Data Compilation 
 
To meet the legislative requirements, all salaries have had to be converted to an hourly rate. The 
hourly  rate  is  determined  after  voluntary  deductions,  including  salary  contractual  amendments 
related to fee remission, but before compulsory deductions such as tax, national insurance and 
employee pension contributions. This also means that it is irrelevant for the purposes of the data if 
someone is part time or full time. Some roles at RGS are paid hourly already, however the majority 
are salaried roles, therefore, all salaried roles have been converted to hourly rates. This poses some 
debate in relation to teachers and the various ways in which their hourly rate can be calculated as 
their pay is not structured around hours worked.  
 
To calculate an hourly rate for teachers, salaries have been divided by the available working days, 
365, and divided by 7.5 per day to create a nominal hourly rate. This includes the Heads and Senior 
Leadership roles also. It is important to note that there is no set formula for the calculating of an 
hourly rate for teachers as prescribed by the Gender Pay Reporting Regulations and as advised by 
ISBA (Independent Schools Bursars Association). For the purposes of any pay deductions, RGS 
Worcester would make this on the basis of 1 365th as per the Burgundy book. Hence this has been 
used as the basis for the hourly paid calculation as it aligns with our current practices. 
 
Gender Pay Gap Challenges 
 
At first glance, our data indicates a pay gap as per calculation 1. This is because the majority of 
lower paid staff in our support staff roles, including cleaners, cleaning supervisors and teaching 
assistants are female, which contributes to a distortion in the data between males and females. 
These roles are paid appropriately for the skill and knowledge required. Though our recruitment 
strategies including how we advertise, comply with all current legislation and are gender neutral, 
we  typically  do  not  attract  many  male  candidates  to  these  roles.  Similar  to  wider  recruitment 
patterns across all sectors in the UK, female staff at RGS are more likely to work part time for a 
variety  of  reasons.  The  reasons  for  the  gender  pay  gap  nationally  are  varied  and  overlapping. 
Typically, these reasons include being a care provider for young children and increasingly, a care 
provider for elderly relatives on an unequal basis compared to men. Women are also more likely 
than men to have had significant breaks from work for family reasons that have affected their career 
progression due to less experience than their counterparts. This in turn, can negatively affect their 
pay progression. 
 
Males do occupy more of the highly paid roles at RGSW, this in itself is not an issue however. We 
are very proud to state that across our Senior Leadership Teams women and men are equally well 
represented. RGS also incorporates a performance appraisal process across all its Schools which 
actively encourages and supports all staff in their career progression. 
 
We do have two males and one female Head and a male Director of Finance and Operations. It is 
important to note that the Heads are paid proportionately in relation to the size of their respective 
Schools they are responsible for. The Senior School (male Head) has approximately 770 pupils, 
RGS The Grange (male Head) 373 and Springfield (female Head) 140.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Addressing the Issues 
 
Our results are not dissimilar to other educational organisations that face the same challenges as 
described previously. To further understand what is causing the pay differences the School aims to 
review detail such as:  
 

•  reviewing the starting salaries of men and women,  
•  understanding the number of men and women in each pay band 
•  the number of men and women who apply for promotion and the number of men and women 

who are successful – in particular at first level promotion such as Heads of Departments 

•  the proportion of men and women who after paternity or maternity leave resume the same 

jobs on return 

and requests by gender 

gender. 

	

	

•  separating the gender pay figures for part time and full-time employees 
•  understanding the proportion of men and women who are on flexible working agreements 

•  Exit Interview detail to understand if the reasons for leaving common reasons are based on 

 
We can use the data to understand the levels of gender equality in our workplace, the balance of 
male and female employees at different levels and how effectively talent is being maximised and 
rewarded. It will take time to work these measures through and reflect on how or if changes need 
to be made.  
 
All employees can confirm their own personal data and direct queries to Penny Anstey, HR Manager 
or John Ralph, School Accountant. 
 
 
 

 

 

