UK Gender Pay Report 2017
 
 
 
 

 

Under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, as 
a  company  with  more  than  250  employees,  Flakt  Woods  Ltd  are  required  to 
publish their gender pay gap within one calendar year of April 5th 2017. 

Flakt Woods Ltd is committed to equal opportunities and creating a diverse and 
inclusive place to work as fundamental to creating a more innovative and high 
performing company to build for the future.  We take this commitment seriously 
and are always looking for initiatives to make this happen to better reflect and 
serve our global customers and the community. 

The  legislation  involves  carrying  out  six  calculations  that  show  the  difference 
between the average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not 
involve publishing individual employees’ data. 

 

The results we can use to assess: 

•  the levels of gender equality in our workplace 
•  the balance of male and female employees at various levels 
•  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded 

The  challenge  in  our  organisation  and  especially  within  manufacturing  and 
engineering  environments  is  to  eliminate  any  gender  pay  gap  and  more 
importantly to increase the diversity within the organisation to attract women 
engineers into the industry. 

The  gender  pay  gap  is  distinct  from  ’Equal  Pay’  that  looks  at  individual  levels 
ensuring women and men are paid equally for carrying out similar work.   

 

 

 

 

UK Gender Pay Report 2017
 
 
 
Understanding our Gender Pay Gap 

 

Pay difference between women and men 

 
 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
 
Gender Bonus Pay Gap 
 
 
Proportion of males and 
females 
a 
bonus payment 

receiving 

 
 
All  Employees  Gender 
Split 

 

Median 
 
-2.7% 

 
12.4% 

Mean 
 
10.4% 

 
43.3% 

  36.6% 

16.7% 

 85.6% 

 14.4% 

The  table  above  shows  our  gender  pay  gap  as  a  snapshot  of  the  difference 
between  the  average  hourly  pay  levels  of  all  women  compared  to  men, 
irrespective of their role in the organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s 
average  pay.        Pay  includes  basic  pay,  allowances  and  shift  pay.    Our  figures 
represent  the  mean  hourly  pay  for  men  is  10.3%  greater  than  for  females, 
significantly  lower  than  the  Office  of  National  Statistics  (ONS)  Great  Britain 
(England, Scotland and Wales) figure of 18.1% (2016 data).  With regard to the 
median calculation, our figures show that women’s median pay is 2.75% higher 
than men’s.   

The explanation of our gender pay gap data and the difference in average pay is 
due to more men in senior roles within the organisation.  The median pay gap in 
favour of women indicates that the majority of women in the organisation are 
within mid-level roles, with men fulfilling more senior roles and an even higher 
number of the blue-collar roles within our manufacturing operations. 

 

 

UK Gender Pay Report 2017
 
 
 
Several senior roles in the organisation are eligible for a bonus payment and as 
indicated above there are more men than women in these senior positions.  The 
Company  also  employs  a  significant  amount  of  technical  sales  people  whose 
roles attract a commission scheme, and 88% of these roles are carried out by 
men. Both factors contribute to the 43.3% average bonus pay gap. 

 

The Company is confident that the gender pay gap is not indicative of different 
rates for men and women in equivalent roles, rather it is a result of the type of 
roles men and women undertake within the organisation and the salaries these 
roles attract.  

 

Pay Quartiles across men and women in the UK 

Lower 
Quartile

12%

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Quartile

Quartile

14%

22%

Upper 
Quartile

10%

88
%

  

86%

78%

90%

Men Women

 

The charts above show the gender distribution between the four pay quartiles.  
The percentage split within each quartile is representative of the overall gender 
split  in  the  organisation.      However,  there  is  a  slightly  higher  percentage  of 
women in the Upper Middle quartile compared to the other quartiles, reflecting 
the comment above that there are more women within middle level roles in the 
organisation.     

Continuing Initiatives to take action  

We are pleased to be able to report that the Company’s gender pay gap is lower 
than  the  average  for  the  manufacturing  and  engineering  industry,  and  that 
although only 14.4% of our workforce is women, this is still higher than the 9% 

 

 

UK Gender Pay Report 2017
 
 
 
industry average cited in 2016 in the “Skills and Demands from Industry 2016 
Survey” published by the Institution of Engineering & Technology 

 

That  said,  there  is  more  progress  to  be  made  and  we  remain  committed  to 
attract more women into our company and the industry, more specifically into 
engineering and sales pathways. 

We  work  closely  with  local  schools  on  science,  technology,  engineering  and 
mathematics (STEM) projects encouraging young women to participate in these 
projects to develop an understanding for engineering activities.  Working with 
these  local  schools,  and  extending  to  colleges,  we  actively  promote  our 
Engineering Apprenticeship Programme to encourage school leavers to embark 
on  our  apprenticeship  programme.    Our  Apprenticeship  Programme  allows 
individuals to work within all departments across the organisation to discover 
their  passion  and  skill  with  the  aim  of  finding  the  area  of  the  business  to 
commence their full-time post apprenticeship position.   Often upon completion 
our employees continue further education embarking on an HNC and this can be 
followed  by  a  Degree  level  qualification.    Many  roles  within  the  organisation 
require  a  technical  background  and  knowledge,  therefore  our  apprenticeship 
provides opportunities for women to develop a long-term career.  

The  company  is  also  involved  in  other  programs.    We  are  a  corporate 
organisation and have many individuals whom are members of the Chartered 
Institute  of  Building  Services  Engineers  (CIBSE),  and  through  CIBSE  and  CIBSE 
Patrons  our  team  are  engaged  in  programs  such  as  the  “Young  Engineers 
Network”  and  other  initiatives  to  encourage  students,  male  and  female,  to 
pursue  a  technical  line  of  work.    We  are  evaluating  participating  in  other 
complementary programmes such as  the International Women in Engineering 
Day.   

The company plans to initiate gender monitoring to gather quantitative data to 
understand  the  proportions  of  men  and  women  applying  for  roles  and  being 
successfully recruited, as well as for internal promotions.  This gender monitoring 
can  extend  to  more  qualitative  information  through  schools  and  colleges  and 
reasons for leaving, to enable us to identify the drivers and barriers for females 
entering the industry. 

 

 

UK Gender Pay Report 2017
 
 
 
We operate an Equal Opportunities policy in all aspects of employment including 
recruitment, promotion, opportunities for training and pay and benefits. 

 

Declaration 

I confirm that Flakt Woods Ltd gender pay gap calculations are accurate and fully 
meet the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations. 

 

 

Helen Gilfillan 
UK HR Director 

 

 

