Royal Mail Group Ltd 
2017 Gender Pay Report

"Royal Mail employs around 142,000 people and strives to ensure they are a diverse mix that reflects the communities we serve. Women are 
traditionally underrepresented in our industry but, through our diversity programme, we are changing this in our business. Our Diversity Council is 
responsible for driving improvements and creating a culture of inclusiveness to support this change. Measures include balanced shortlisting, career 
development opportunities, mentoring and networking events. 
In 2017, we were listed as a Times Top 50 Employer for Women for the fourth consecutive year, in recognition of our efforts to improve the gender 
balance in the organisation. We were also listed as a Top 20 company for senior leader gender diversity, in the Hampton-Alexander Review. This is an 
independent, Government-supported review of diversity in FTSE 100 companies.
In previous years, our gender pay analysis has been disclosed in our Corporate Responsibility Report. Our analysis has consistently shown that, for the 
business as a whole, we do not have a gender pay gap, with the average male salary and average female salary being the same on a median basis. 
I am pleased to confirm that our first report under the new gender pay gap regulations continues to show that we reward people fairly.”
Moya Greene, Chief Executive Officer

April 2017 Total Pay Gap

We have conducted an annual, Company-wide pay review for many years, to identify any 
discrepancies in pay of males and females. We are pleased to report that, as in previous years, the 
average salaries of men and women are broadly the same. On a mean basis, women are paid 2.1 per 
cent more than men. On a median basis, men are paid 1.5 per cent more than women. 
Women are paid more on a mean basis due to the fact that we have a greater proportion of women in 
senior positions, compared to junior positions and operational roles. The difference in median pay rates 
is due to males being more likely to select work that qualifies for allowances, such as shift work during 
the evening or at night. 

Mean 

Median 

 

 

-2.1%
 (male < female)

1.5%
(male > female)

April 2017 Total Pay Quartiles

The table to the right shows the percentage of male and female employees in each pay quartile. 
It splits the Company’s entire population into four pay quartiles based on employees’ Total Pay hourly 
rates. Each quartile contains almost 33,000 colleagues. As the Upper pay quartile is so large, it does 
not show the higher proportion of females in senior management positions, compared to more junior 
positions. We have relatively high gender diversity at our most senior levels: 50 per cent of our Board 
members are women, which compares well to the FTSE 100 average of 27 per cent. Women make up 
30 per cent of our senior managers. 

Quartile

Lower
Lower Middle
Upper Middle
Upper

Male %

Female %

82%
83%
85%
84%

18%
17%
15%
16%

2016-17 Bonus Gap

On a median basis, we pay bonuses equally to men and women. On a mean basis, women receive 
9.1 per cent more than men. The mean bonus calculation is skewed towards women because they 
comprise a greater percentage of the workforce at senior levels compared with more junior levels. 

2016-17 Proportions Receiving a Bonus

99 per cent of men and 97 per cent of women employed in April 2017 received a bonus during 
2016-17. We are working hard to increase the proportion of women in our business, and in particular 
in operational roles. As a result of our initiatives, many of our recent hires into our operation are 
female. As they joined the business in the New Year, they missed the annual bonus which is paid at 
Christmas. This is because they were employed after the qualifying period for the bonus. They will of 
course be eligible in future years.

Mean 

Median 

 

 

-9.1%
 (male < female)

0.0%
(male = female)

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

99%

97%

Male

Female

Declaration

I confirm that the data is accurate and in line with mandatory requirements.

Moya Greene 
Chief Executive Officer

