Genome Research Limited
Gender Pay Report 2017
Introduction 

Under UK legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers of more than 250 
employees are required to publish their gender pay gap. Genome Research Limited (GRL) 
embraces this and is committed to increasing gender pay transparency. 

Genome Research Limited (GRL) encompasses three main activities undertaken by our  
operations at Wellcome Genome Campus. They are the Wellcome Sanger Institute, Connecting 
Science, and Enterprise and Innovation. All of these activities work in the fields of Genomes and 
Biodata and are very much interlinked. 

Since 2011, we have been pursuing a broad strategy to address the issue of gender imbalance 
and support for women in science through our active Campus-wide ‘Sex in Science’ programme. 

In 2013, GRL became an active member of the Equality Challenge Unit’s Athena SWAN  
Charter which recognises the work undertaken to address gender equality. Our Athena SWAN 
Bronze Award was renewed in 2016 and we have pledged to elevate our award to Silver. 

In 2017, our work was expanded to include broader diversity considerations and we are prioritising 
the implementation of an ambitious Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Programme. I am proud of the 
work we are doing to position ourselves as a sector leader in this area. 

Our global reputation for scientific excellence is strengthened by our firm desire to maintain a 
forward-looking organisation where staff from all backgrounds are welcomed and can thrive. The 
workforce at GRL is inter-disciplinary and encompasses a broad range of expertise and talent. 
This includes skilled researchers and scientific leaders, technical experts, PhD students,  
technicians and professional support staff. 

GRL is committed to fostering an inclusive culture where employees are supported to reach their 
full potential and are valued for their differences in thought, background, experience and  
perspective. We welcome the additional insight that gender pay disclosure provides and will use 
this responsibility as part of our ambition to be a fair and inclusive place to work.

Martin Dougherty 
Chief Operating Officer 
Genome Research Limited

Our Gender Pay Gap                 

On 5 April 2017, Genome Research Limited 
(GRL) had a median gender pay gap of 10.19% 
which is below the national median of 18.1%.  

While our figures are lower than the national 
average gender pay gap, we are not complacent 
and recognise we still have work to do to  
address gender imbalance. 

National Median

18.1%
Median 
Pay Gap

Genome Research Limited

Analysis of our gender gap figures tell us that 
our gender pay gap arises because fewer  
women hold senior positions within GRL than 
men. While 53% of GRL employees are women, 
this drops to 32% at our senior salary grade, 
which attracts the highest level of remuneration. 
We are currently working with an external  
consultant to look at our gender pay gap and 
conduct further statistical analysis of our data.
Gender balance of each pay quartile 
First Quartile

Second Quartile

10.19%
Median 
Pay Gap

16.15%
Mean 
Pay Gap

Third Quartile

Fourth Quartile

60.3%
60.3%
Women
Women

61.5%
Women

49.6%
Women

39.9%
Women

60.3%
Women

39.7%
Men
Men

61.5%
Women

38.5%
Men

49.6%
Women

50.4%
Men

39.9%
Women

60.1%
Men

Bonus Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Pay Gap

% of women and men receiving a bonus payment

0.0%
Median 
Bonus Gap

39.4%
Mean 
Bonus Gap

25.7%
of
Women

25.8%
of
Men

Where are we taking action?

GRL is focussed on impactful and sustained changes which, combined, encourage and support a 
positive culture of equality, diversity and inclusion. As part of this, we are committed to a range of 
long-term, targeted activities which promote gender equality and recruitment, retention and  
progression of women within the organisation. 
Our Culture
Our established ‘Sex in Science’ programme 
raises awareness within the organisation of 
issues facing women, and increasingly men in 
science, and drives policy and practice changes 
to redress them. 

Work-Life Balance
GRL is committed to providing a range of 
progressive policies which support  
everyone to achieve a positive work-life 
balance. 

We actively promote, encourage and  
support flexible working practices; and  
recently launched a video campaign to 
highlight the benefits of flexible working.

Over the last three years we have seen a 
48% increase in uptake of flexible working. 

Our enhanced Maternity and Shared  
Parental Leave Policies provide an  
entitlement to six months’ full pay. There is 
no qualifying period of employment before 
an employee is entitled to benefit from this 
enhanced policy.

Paid Leave for Carers was introduced in 
2017. This provides our employees with up 
to 10 additional days paid leave a year to 
deal with short-term, extraordinary caring 
situations such as looking after a sick child. 

We have a workplace nursery on site and 
run a summer holiday club on Campus. 

However, we recognise that no initiative will fully 
succeed without the right culture and working 
environment. In November 2017, we launched  
a Workplace Culture Initiative to examine our 
culture and how it can be improved to create a 
more inclusive workplace.

This project is being conducted in collaboration 
with Dr Jill Armstrong, a Bye-Fellow at  
Cambridge University, Murray Edwards  
College. Jill has expertise on gender equality in 
the workplace and is helping us to look at the 
recruitment, retention and progression of  
women, who are under-represented in  
senior roles. The findings will allow us to unpick 
perceived gender bias and any gaps that are 
perceived to exist between organisational policy 
and processes and everyday experience. 
Pay and Reward
GRL is committed to the principle of equal pay 
for all employees. We have pay and conditions 
of employment that do not discriminate  
unlawfully and we use a job evaluation system 
to assess the relative value of jobs across the 
organisation and the allocation of each job within our grading structure. 

In 2017 we implemented a new pay framework to provide greater transparency and clarity for  
individuals in terms of pay progression. This moved the organisation away from a broad-banded 
pay framework, to one which is based on a new job family structure and job family specific pay 
ranges. In 2018, we will be reviewing how we award one-off bonuses and promotions to ensure 
that we have processes in place which promote an equitable, diverse and inclusive workplace.

Recruitment
As part of GRL’s commitment to ensure that its 
recruitment processes encourage the selection 
of the right candidate, regardless of their  
background, we introduced a bespoke  
Unconscious Bias and Recruitment Training 
Programme in mid-2017. It is now mandatory 
that all of our interview panels include at least 
one person who has undertaken this training 
and since launch 133 individuals have  
completed one of the workshops.

In addition, we have an unconscious bias  
observer present during the selection process 
for both Faculty and senior level recruitment 
campaigns.
Training and Development
Our Management and Leadership Development 
Framework, launched in 2016, is underpinned by 
six bespoke formal development programmes, 
designed to meet the needs of both our scientific 
and non-scientific managers. In 2017, 66% of 
attendees on our programmes were women.

In 2015, we introduced a Carers’ Grant. This 
enables employees to access training,  
conferences, collaborative research visits, or 
invited talks whilst receiving financial support  
to cover additional care costs for dependents.

Personal Salary Grade
In 2017 we introduced a new pay structure 
for our ‘Personal Salary Grade’, which is 
the highest pay band across GRL. This 
reduced the median gender pay gap at this 
senior level from 22% to 14%.

Gender Neutral Adverts
We have introduced a gender decoder tool 
which helps to eliminate the risk of  
unconscious bias featuring on our job 
adverts through the use of gender neutral 
language. 

Routes back into Science
We are committed to opening routes back 
into science for those who have had a 
break from scientific research. 

Our Janet Thornton post-doctoral level  
fellowship is specifically aimed at those 
who have taken a career break of at least 
12 months. One Fellowship is awarded 
each year and can be worked full time, part 
time or flexibly. Each year, this attracts a 
strong field of applicants.

Talented Women’s Impact Programme
We have invested in a ‘Talented Women’s Impact Programme’ as part of our commitment to 
maximising the opportunities of our female leaders. 

This five month programme is designed to accelerate the development and promotion of 
high-potential women within our organisation. It is delivered using an effective combination of 
one-day workshops, small group work, telephone coaching sessions and individual  
communication sessions. 

In 2017, 26 women successfully completed this programme. After attending, 90% of  
attendees agreed that they felt either confident or very confident in their leadership ability. 

About us

Genome Research Limited (GRL) encompasses three main activities undertaken by our  
operations at Wellcome Genome Campus. They are:

•  Wellcome Sanger Institute
•  Connecting Science
•  Enterprise and Innovation.

All of these activities work in the fields of Genomes and Biodata and are very much interlinked.

The Wellcome Sanger Institute is one of the world’s leading genome centres. Through its ability to 
conduct research at scale, it is able to engage in bold and long-term exploratory projects that are 
designed to influence and empower medical science globally. Institute research findings,  
generated through its own research programmes and through its leading role in international  
consortia, are being used to develop new diagnostics and treatments for human disease. 

Wellcome Genome Campus Connecting Science’s mission is to enable everyone to explore 
genomic science and its impact on research, health and society. We connect researchers, health 
professionals and the wider public, creating opportunities and spaces to explore genomic science 
and its impact on people. Connecting Science inspires new thinking, sparks conversation,  
supports learning and measures attitudes, drawing on the ground-breaking research taking place 
on the Wellcome Genome Campus. www.wellcomegenomecampus.org/connectingscience

Genome Research Limited 
Wellcome Genome Campus 
Hinxton 
Cambridgeshire 
CB10 1SA

