                     Request a Test Drive  Close the dialog Request a Van Test Drive      Select Citan, Vito, Sprinter to test drive*  --- Citan - Dualiner Citan - Panel van Citan - Sport Citan - Tourer Vito - Crew van Vito - Panel van Vito - Tourer Vito - Sport Sprinter - Panel van Sprinter - Chassis van Sprinter - Dropside Sprinter - Traveliner X-Class Your First Name*  Your Last Name*  Your preferred date (YYYY-MM-DD)*  Your Phone Number*  Your Email*  Postcode*  If you would like to receive more information about Rygor special offers, products and services including news updates and event information please tick here.  Book an MOT Find Us Configure my van  Book a truck demo  Close the dialog Book a demonstration      Select a truck for a demonstration*  --- Actros Antos Arocs Atego Econic Canter Unimog Your First Name  Your Last Name  Your preferred date (YYYY-MM-DD)*  Your Phone Number*  Your Email*  Postcode*  Once our truck team have received your demo request they will be in contact with you to discuss your specific requirements. If you would like to receive more information about Rygor special offers, products and services including news updates and event information please tick here.  Call us Today     Rygor - Chilcompton Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales including WebParts.  01761 233 442  Rygor - Newbury Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01635 521 900  Rygor - Reading New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01189 207 777  Rygor - Swindon New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01793 821 820  Rygor - Heathrow New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  0208 890 8907  Rygor - Nuneaton Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  02476 324 910  Rygor - Salisbury Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01722 413 733  Rygor - Kidderminster New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01562 864 444  Rygor - Oxford New and used Mercedes-Benz truck and van sales. Servicing, MOT and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01865 881 581  Rygor - Westbury New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT, DVSA testing facility and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01373 855 555  Rygor - Gloucester New and used van and truck sales. Servicing, MOT, DVSA testing facility and Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts sales.  01452 229 990     Rygor  Home Van Citan Vito Sprinter Latest Van Offers from Rygor Approved Used Vans Motability Truck Actros Antos Arocs Atego Econic Canter Truck Offers Approved Used Trucks Driver Training After Sales Service, MOT and Annual Testing Warranty Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts & Accessories MobiloVan Service Care Mercedes Service 24h Repair & Maintenance Vehicle Off Road Fleet Fleet Benefits Team Driver Training Finance & Insurance Finance Options Insurance Products Branches Chilcompton Gloucester Heathrow Kidderminster Newbury Nuneaton Oxford Reading Salisbury Swindon Westbury News News Archive News Kidderminster Refurbishment Blog About Us Why Rygor Key People at Rygor Testimonials & Case Studies Careers Events Contact New vans     Citan     Vito       Sprinter     X-Class   Used vans   New trucks     Rigid     Tractor / Artic     Canter       Truck Stock       Service  Van Mot & Servicing  Truck inspections  Service Care  Repair & Maintenance   Service Mobilo Van  Vehicle Off Road  Warranty  Parts & Accessories  Genuine Parts & Accessories     Fleet  Fleet   Benefits   Team   Driver Training    Finance  Finance  Insurance  Insurance    Branches  Chilcompton   Gloucester   Heathrow   Kidderminster   Newbury   Nuneaton   Oxford   Reading   Salisbury  Swindon   Westbury     News  Rygor Apprentices Mark Successful Probation with Celebratory Track Experience  Monday 9th April 2018  Mercedes-Benz Commercial Vehicle Dealer group, Rygor, has celebrated its first-year apprentices’ completed probationary periods with a day out at Mercedes-Benz World. The Dealer group who currently has 13 first-year commercial vehicle technician and parts apprentices training at its branches, invited…  Read more  Are you a new van man (or woman)?  Wednesday 18th April 2018  Tips from IAM RoadSmart Driving a van for the first time requires some thought: although they are the same licence group as a car, there are some real differences which could catch you out. This week’s tips give advice to…  Read more About us  Why Rygor   Key People   Testimonials & Case Studies    Careers   Events   News    Why Choose Rygor With 11 branches giving extensive coverage Rygor is the UK’s largest commercial dealer group. Our zero tolerance to downtime policy maximises your vehicle uptime We’re where you need us, when you need us with our BlueChip Response Team We consistently achieve one of the highest MOT pass rates in the country Our Business Managers create bespoke finance options to benefit your business With extended opening hours, we maintain your vehicles when it’s convenient for you    You are viewing: Home / About Us About Us Rygor is the largest dedicated dealer group for Mercedes-Benz commercial vehicles in the UK, with branches throughout Berkshire, Gloucestershire, Oxfordshire, Somerset, West London, Wiltshire and Worcestershire, offering extensive coverage for customers through the M5, M4 and M42 corridors. Having started life in 1960 as a family business in Westbury, Rygor became a service agent for Mercedes-Benz in 1986. It’s our experience, professionalism and skills that help us Set Standards in all we do, to help keep your business on track. Whether you are purchasing a single van, a mighty Unimog or 100 heavy trucks, your business is uniquely important to us. We pride ourselves on offering highly flexible finance terms, insurance and service contracts to deliver a tailor-made support at genuinely competitive prices. Our business has gone from strength to strength expanding into new locations with flagship branches and has this year been listed in the Sunday Time’s Top Track 250. With a proven track record, Rygor is proud to be selling and supporting the most prestigious name in commercial vehicles.  Why Rygor   Key People   Testimonials & Case Studies   Careers   Events   News    Why Rygor Key People Testimonials & Case Studies Careers Events News  Book a Van Test Drive    Close the dialog Book a Van Test Drive      Select Citan, Vito, Sprinter to test drive*  --- Citan - Dualiner Citan - Panel van Citan - Sport Citan - Tourer Vito - Crew van Vito - Panel van Vito - Tourer Vito - Sport Sprinter - Panel van Sprinter - Chassis van Sprinter - Dropside Sprinter - Traveliner X-Class Your First Name*  Your Last Name*  Your preferred date (YYYY-MM-DD)*  Your Phone Number*  Your Email*  Postcode*  If you would like to receive more information about Rygor special offers, products and services including news updates and event information please tick here.  Request a Truck Demo    Close the dialog Request a truck Demonstration      Select a truck for a demonstration*  --- Actros Antos Arocs Atego Econic Canter Unimog Your First Name  Your Last Name  Your preferred date (YYYY-MM-DD)*  Your Phone Number*  Your Email*  Postcode*  Once our truck team have received your demo request they will be in contact with you to discuss your specific requirements. If you would like to receive more information about Rygor special offers, products and services including news updates and event information please tick here.       After Sales At Rygor, we understand the importance of keeping your vehicle on the road,
which is why we offer an extensive range of after sales services, from servicing
and MOTs to Mercedes-Benz GenuineParts and complimentary roadside assistance,
all backed up by our Rygor Zero Tolerance to Downtime policy. Discover what we
can offer you and your vehicles, today.  Read more  MOT   Warranty   Genuine Parts & Accessories   Mobilo Van   Service Care   Service Repair & Maintenance  Vehicle Off Road  News Are you a new van man (or woman)?  Wednesday 18th April 2018    Tips from IAM RoadSmart Driving a van for the first time requires some thought: although they are the same licence group as a car, there are some real differences which could catch you out. This week’s tips give advice to…  Read more Rygor Apprentices Mark Successful Probation with Celebratory Track Experience  Monday 9th April 2018    Mercedes-Benz Commercial Vehicle Dealer group, Rygor, has celebrated its first-year apprentices’ completed probationary periods with a day out at Mercedes-Benz World. The Dealer group who currently has 13 first-year commercial vehicle technician and parts apprentices training at its branches, invited…  Read more Useful links Contact Branches News Careers Van Van Used Vans Truck Truck Used Trucks Offers Van Offers Truck Offers Connect on social media     Recent tweets  @RYGOR   April 19, 2018  Make the smart choice this year, drive away in a new Mercedes-Benz truck sooner than you think with our truck stock… twitter.com/i/web/status/9…     @RYGOR   April 19, 2018  What a great picture! hope you're enjoying your X-Class twitter.com/JJXLogistics/s…    Follow us on Twitter Sitemap  Provider  Close the dialog Provider Provider
Rygor Commercials Limited (South) The Broadway
Westbury
BA13 4JX Contact: Tel.: 01373 855555 Fax: +44 1373 855535 E-Mail: info@rygor.co.uk  Cookies  Close the dialog Cookies Welcome to our website. If you continue to browse and use this website, you are agreeing to comply with and be bound by the following terms and conditions of use, which together with our privacy policy govern Rygor’s relationship with you in relation to this website. If you disagree with any part of these terms and conditions, please do not use our website.   The term ‘Company name’ or ‘us’ or ‘we’ refers to the owner of the website whose registered office is Rygor, The Broadway, West Wilts Trading Estate, Westbury, Wiltshire, BA13 4JX. The term ‘you’ refers to the user or viewer of our website.   The use of this website is subject to the following terms of use: The content of the pages of this website is for your general information and use only. It is subject to change without notice. Neither we nor any third parties provide any warranty or guarantee as to the accuracy, timeliness, performance, completeness or suitability of the information and materials found or offered on this website for any particular purpose. You acknowledge that such information and materials may contain inaccuracies or errors and we expressly exclude liability for any such inaccuracies or errors to the fullest extent permitted by law. Your use of any information or materials on this website is entirely at your own risk, for which we shall not be liable. It shall be your own responsibility to ensure that any products, services or information available through this website meet your specific requirements. This website contains material which is owned by or licensed to us. This material includes, but is not limited to, the design, layout, look, appearance and graphics. Reproduction is prohibited other than in accordance with the copyright notice, which forms part of these terms and conditions. All trademarks reproduced in this website, which are not the property of, or licensed to the operator, are acknowledged on the website. Unauthorised use of this website may give rise to a claim for damages and/or be a criminal offence. From time to time, this website may also include links to other websites. These links are provided for your convenience to provide further information. They do not signify that we endorse the website(s). We have no responsibility for the content of the linked website(s). Your use of this website and any dispute arising out of such use of the website is subject to the laws of England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.   The information we collect We collect information from you by means of a ‘cookie’ when you use our Website.   Cookies Cookies are small text files that are stored on your computer’s hard drive by websites you visit to enable the site to ‘remember’ who you are. In general, cookies are only visible to the Website that serves them, not to other websites. ‘Serves’ means places on your computer’s hard drive. At www.rygor.co.uk we just use the free Google Analytics tool (see http://www.google.com/analytics/en-GB/index.html) to collect and analyse site statistics. Google Analytics uses persistent cookies to track data. These cookies do not collect any personally identifiable information and are only used for the statistical collection of data such as visits and page hits. Google Analytics’ cookies store IP addresses but we cannot link those addresses to any individual or path through the website. Google uses the cookies to read information and evaluate visitors’ use of the website in the form of statistical reports that we can access. The Google Analytics’ code is incorporated into our site’s code so that our site serves the cookies, but Google has access to the cookies.   Most browsers automatically accept cookies and you should be able to accept, delete or reject them if you wish by adjusting the settings on your browser. We do not use ‘spyware’, that is web bugs or hidden identifiers or other similar devices to gain access to information, store hidden information or to trace your activities.   What we do with the information We only use the information to monitor how many people have visited the website and how the visitor has discovered the website. We never share it. We will never share the statistics with anyone they are just for our information so that we know if the website is used by the local community or not. By using this Website and submitting information, you consent to: The collection and use of the information by us as described above. Please note that cookies can’t harm your computer and we don’t know any personally identifiable information from the one cookie we use. We’re giving you this information as part of our initiative to comply with recent legislation, and to make sure we’re honest and clear about your privacy when using our website.   For queries about the website please contact Varn. Varn  Legal Notice  Close the dialog  Legal Notice Copyright Copyright Rygor Ltd. All Rights Reserved. The text, images, graphics, sound files, animation files, video files and their arrangement on Rygor Internet sites are all subject to Copyright and other intellectual property protection. These objects may not be copied for commercial use or distribution, nor may these objects be modified or reposted to other sites. Some Rygor Internet sites also contain material that is subject to the copyright rights of their providers.  Product variations Some of the product information, illustrations and images contained on this Internet site may have been prepared for generic use on Rygor Internet sites maintained in different countries around the world. Consequently, some of the information and/or accessories which are not available in some countries or which, in order to satisfy local market demand or regulatory controls in such countries, may only be available in different specifications or configurations.  If you are interested in any vehicle model, paint, option or accessory shown on the Internet site and are unsure of its availability or specification in your locality, you should contact your local Rygor sales branches for the relevant product, for information of current details.  Prices All prices specified are recommended retail prices. Prices are current at the time of publication and subject to change without notice.  Trademarks Unless otherwise indicated, all marks displayed on Rygor Internet sites are subject to the trademark rights of Rygor, this applies especially to its model name plates, and its corporate logos and emblems.  No Licenses Rygor has thought to achieve an innovative and informative Internet site. We hope that you will be as enthusiastic as we are about this creative effort. However, you also need to understand that Rygor must protect their Intellectual Property, including their patents, trademarks and copyrights. Accordingly, you are hereby on notice that neither this Internet site, nor any material contained therein shall in any way grant or be taken to grant any person a license to Rygor’s Intellectual Property.  Cautions regarding forward-looking statements Internet pages, investor relations releases, annual and interim reports, outlooks, presentations, audio and video files of events (live or recorded) and other documents on this website contain among other things forward looking statements that reflect management´s current views with respect to future events. The words “anticipate,” “assume,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “project” and “should” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: an economic downturn in Europe or North America; changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and in raw material prices; introduction of competing products; increased sales incentives; the successful implementation of the new business model for smart; and decline in resale prices of used vehicles. If any of these or other risks and uncertainties occur (some of which are described under the heading “Risk Report” in Rygor´s most recent Annual Report and under the heading “Risk Factors” in Rygor’s most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission), or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, then actual results may be materially different from those expressed or implied by such statements. We do not intend or assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement, which speaks only as of the date on which it is made.  No warranties or representations The information on this Internet site is provided by Rygor “as is” and to the extent permitted by law, is provided without warranty of any kind, expressed or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for any particular purpose, or non infringement. While the information provided is believed to be accurate, it may include errors or inaccuracies.  Links to external sites This Internet site contains links to external sites, which are not under the control of Rygor. Therefore we are not responsible for the contents of any linked site. Rygor is providing these links to you only as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by Rygor of the linked site.  Mercedes-Benz UK Limited is an appointed representative of Daimler Insurance Services UK Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, in respect of insurance mediation activities only.  Rygor Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA 2015) focuses specifically on the issue of modern slavery to ensure offenders are suitably reprimanded with severe sentences. Modern slavery encompasses the offences of: ‘slavery’ where ownership is exercised over a person; ‘servitude’ which involves the obligation to provide service imposed by coercion; ‘forced or compulsory labour’ involves work or service exacted from any person under the menace of a penalty and for which the person has not offered themselves voluntarily; and ‘human trafficking’ concerns arranging or facilitating the travel of another with a view to exploiting them. Click here to read in full Gender Pay Gap Along with all large companies Rygor Group Limited is publishing data in respect of its Gender Pay Gap. Rygor is committed to equal pay regardless of race, colour, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, age or disability. Our highest paid workers tend to be our Sales Executives and Vehicle Technicians, which in the commercial vehicle industry are traditionally male dominated. There are currently opportunities in these departments, including apprenticeships, and if you are interested in a career at Rygor please email careers@rygor.co.uk with your details. The mean hourly pay for male employees was 21.89% higher than it was for female employees. This compares to a national pay gap of 18.1% higher pay for males. The median hourly pay gap was 26.57% The mean bonus we pay our staff was 18.97% higher for female staff (and 37.04% higher for median bonus), and 38% of all male employees received bonus compared to 39% of females. This data is based on 31 March 2017, when we had a total of 637 employees of which 128 (20%) were female and 509 (80%) male. The split of employees per pay quartile was as follows which reflects the low numbers of female staff in our higher paid vehicle technician and vehicle sales departments: Graham Drake Director January 2018 © 2015 Rygor Website design by Varn Rygor Commercials is an appointed representative of ITC Compliance Limited which is authorised and regulated by the 	Financial Conduct Authority (Authority No: 313486) and which is permitted to advise on and arrange general insurance contracts. Rygor Commercials is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority for consumer credit activity (Registration No: 741568).