                       models                                   Corporate   Policies          POLICIES   Aston Martin is proud of its record on corporate and social responsibilities including our Environmental, End of Life Vehicle and Battery Recycling policies.           Gender Pay Gap Report 2017   Passionate,
motivated and professional people are central to everything we do at Aston
Martin. As the company continues to grow under the Second Century Plan, we are
focussed on One
Way of working together
as One Team with One Vision to be; ‘the GREAT British car
company that creates the most beautiful and accomplished automotive art in the
world’. We recognise
that to deliver this, we need a high performing culture, characterised by a
diverse and inclusive workforce. Our first
Gender Pay Gap Report sources data taken as a snapshot on 5th April 2017. Download the Aston Martin Gender Pay Gap Report 2017           ASTON MARTIN ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY   As Aston Martin enters its 104th year the company is in a transition between its First and Second Century. This transition is set out in the company’s Second Century Plan, which aims to see the business become a sustainable luxury business. Over the duration of the Second Century Plan we will invest heavily in new products, facilities and research and development. The focus of our Second Century Plan is to make Aston Martin a sustainable luxury business, through the promotion of responsible and sustainable economic growth. This commitment has led us to develop an integrated Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy for the business of which the environmental performance of Aston Martin is at the heart. This environmental policy statement covers every aspect of our Company’s operations, whether they are directly or indirectly involved in the design, engineering, manufacture, servicing and restoration of motor cars or the distribution of parts. We strive for continuous improvement in our environmental performance and the elimination of pollution and waste at source in line with our business objectives, using recognised environmental best practices where ever possible. Our objectives and commitments to the environment and the community are to: Comply as a minimum with all relevant environmental legislation as well as other environmental requirements, whilst continuing to strive beyond these targets wherever possible. Commit to on-going reductions in energy and resource consumption in the manufacture and operation of our vehicles, and an ongoing reduction in our carbon footprint. Set, monitor and attain all objectives and targets for managing our environmental performance, to ensure strict control over the environmental aspects of all products, processes and facilities. Minimise the impact of Aston Martin activities, products and services through effective waste management. Give due consideration to environmental issues and energy performance in acquisition, design, refurbishment, location and use of buildings. Promote sustainable product design and construction, using low carbon and renewable energy resources wherever possible. Operate and maintain an environmental system in line with ISO14001:2004 Communicate internally and externally our environmental policy, working with our employees, suppliers and partners to promote improved environmental performance and encourage feedback. This policy statement represents our general position on environmental issues, and the policies and practices we will apply in conducting our business. This policy statement will be reviewed annually by the Aston Martin Environmental Department. Dr Andrew Palmer CMG President and Chief Executive Officer - February 2017     END OF LIFE VEHICLES   The End of Life Vehicle Directive requires motor vehicle manufacturers to offer a free take back service for the last registered keeper if the vehicle has come to the end of its’ useful life, regardless of the vehicles first registration date. The vehicle is required to be complete and contain the essential components including engine, transmission, coachwork, wheels and catalysts where fitted. The vehicle must also be free of any additional waste such as garden or household waste. Aston Martin has selected Cartakeback Ltd to provide a free take back service to the last keeper of Aston Martin vehicles. Cartakeback has a network of Authorised Treatment Facilities that are fully licenced by the Environment Agency. Should you wish to have your vehicle collected and appropriately recycled, deregistered and be issued with an official Certificate of Destruction, please visit CarTakeBack. For more information on de-pollution and recycling of an ELV please call the Cartakeback Helpline 0845 2573233          BATTERY RECYCLING POLICY   When a primary battery in your vehicle reaches its end of life, it can be delivered to the facilities listed below for disposal. Garages Civic Amenity and Recycling Centres Local authority battery collection schemes (please check with your local council) Licensed Scrap yards Authorised Treatment Facilities (car dismantlers etc). To find out the easiest way to dispose of your battery please search the Recycling near you directory. Beginning from 1st January 2010, the main batteries used in conventional vehicles can continue to be taken back to the above locations or if this fails please contact Cartakeback on 0845 257 32 33 or visit CarTakeBack. Aston Martin’s Battery producer registration number is BPRN00982. The disposal of waste industrial and automotive batteries by landfill or by incineration is banned from 1 January 2010.          Aston Martin Tax Strategy   Aston Martin Holdings (UK) Limited is the holding company for Aston Martin’s worldwide operations whose principal activities are the sale of high performance sports cars and the sale of parts and servicing under the brand name of Aston Martin. This strategy is applicable to all entities within the group (‘the Group’), which are listed in the attached appendix, in accordance with paragraphs 16 and 19 of Schedule 19 to the Finance Act 2016, and is applicable from the date of publication until it is superseded. References to ‘UK Taxation’ are to the taxes and duties set out in paragraph 15(1) of the Schedule which include Income Tax, Corporation Tax, PAYE, NIC, VAT, Insurance Premium Tax and Stamp Duty Land Tax. Read full Aston Martin Tax Strategy               Brand Stories  Ownership  World of Aston Martin  Q by Aston Martin  Corporate  Pre-Owned  Shop  Enquiry  Dealers        Search  Enquire                    New Vantage    Vantage AMR    DB11    Rapide S    Vanquish S    Vanquish Zagato    Aston Martin Valkyrie    Past models                               My Account                                         Enquire  Enquire Resources         Title           Title  Mr.  Mrs.  Miss.  Ms.  Dr.                                    Country          Country         Dealership          Select Dealer             Model          Model           Body Style          Body Style         Engine          Engine          Stay connected  Aston Martin Lagonda limited would like to be able to contact you about invitations, news, and information about its products and services and to be able to share your information with its group companies and select business partners including authorised dealers in your local region or country who may contact you about their goods and services.  If you would like to receive such invitations and information from us or our selected business partners, please confirm that we may use and share your data as described, and indicate your preferences by ticking the means by which you would like to hear from us:       Contact me via email                Contact me via sms                Contact me via phone                Aston Martin respects your privacy and your personal data will be used in accordance with our privacy policy. If at any time you wish to cease receiving such communications, please let us know by writing to the data controller, Aston Martin, CV35 0DB, UK or by clicking unsubscribe on the emails you may receive.        Send enquiry       Your enquiry has been sent  Thank You. A member of our team will be in touch shortly.   Close                                                                      Media    Contact Us    Terms and Conditions                Privacy    Cookies     United Kingdom                Change country               UK            US            Deutschland            日本              © ASTON MARTIN 2018    