Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Infosys Limited - UK Branch

Introduction

At Infosys, we recognize the need for greater Diversity and Inclusion
at the workplace, and on this journey, we place special emphasis on 
enabling gender diversity. Women form an integral part our of 
company and we do all that we can to build an inclusive, supportive 
and safe workplace for them. 

We value our women, who form over 36% of our global workforce. 
As we include more gender balance in our workforce we expect our 
pay gap to reduce. This includes our competitive pay structure. 

Our comprehensive Diversity and Inclusion strategy, with its strong 
focus on gender, is powered by a supportive leadership and is 
making strides at the workplace. We will keep marching on, to 
strengthen our strategy and drive positive outcomes. 

2

Understanding the gap

Our pay gap is caused, like many other 

Proportion of males and females according 

Proportion receiving bonus
Proportion receiving bonus

companies in our industry, by having less women 

in senior roles and/or being employed in certain 

roles e.g. sales roles. 

As a company we now have just over 36% 

women in the workforce. We are moving in the 

right direction but we know we still have a way to 

go and will continue to strive to redress this 

gender imbalance.

Our aim going forward is to achieve a year on 

year improvement in our gender pay gap. We 

hope that as we strive to achieve greater gender 

balance across the company and in the senior 

120%

100%

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

27.9%

72.1%

roles, the result will be that our gender pay gap 

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Top Quartile

will reduce.

Quartile

Quartile

Male

Female

to quartile pay bands

16.4%

13.8%

10.4%

16.9% of female employees and 
22.8% of male employees receive 

bonuses

83.6%

86.2%

89.6%

Mean gender pay gap of 17.9%

Median gender pay gap of 18.0%

Mean bonus pay gap of 49.7%

Median bonus pay gap of 53.1%

3

Initiatives for balanced diversity

We have created a number of employee resource groups that address the need of our diverse workforce, including community participation, 
networking, cultural enrichment, and support based on affinity, ability and gender. The programs include mentorship of women to grow in 
their career, women in tech, return to work, and special events and celebrations to endure continuous engagement with our diverse 
workforce.

l

s
e
p
m
a
x
e
e
m
o
S

 

Family Matters: In a world where 
long workdays are increasingly 
becoming the norm, striking that 
perfect balance between work and 
life is no easy task. Family matters 
was instituted to extend the 
Infosys family to include every 
Infoscion's family, offering support 
and help when needed.

Infosys Women’s Inclusivity 
Network (IWIN): IWIN was 
designed to cater to the needs of 
our female workforce. It facilitates 
greater flexibility, exclusive 
training, mentoring, and 
experience sharing programs for 
female Infoscions.

Creating Common Ground: At Infosys, we provide the best training for the skills you need to succeed in a global environment. 
Employees are part of an environment where Infoscions across the globe assimilate into one culture.

4

Building lifelong careers

We will continue to actively attract and recruit women into all areas of Infosys’ 
business to try to create a truly inclusive environment.

Our employees are our biggest assets. Our priority is to attract and retain the best 
talent in the right locations with the right skills. We therefore focus on the overall well-
being of our employees, providing them with a fulfilling, lifelong career. Amongst other 
initiatives, education and flexible work models are successful and well received 
examples of our strong commitment to build a balanced workforce.

We believe education and training are integral parts of a successful career. In an 
attempt to balance career aspirations, we instituted a unique Talent Fulfilment function 
– a central, organization-wide talent management function to plan for our talent 
needs, enhance utilization of existing talent, improve employee morale through 
continuous engagement and re-skill the workforce to the changing business needs.

Our diverse approach to addressing individual needs helps us to achieve conclusive 
results for the organization, while helping the individual maintain a balance between 
work and life. We support our employees with programs such as parental leave, 
part-time and flexi-hours. 

5

Declaration

We confirm that the information stated is 

accurate and that the data has been 

calculated in accordance with the 

relevant regulations of The Equality Act 

2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 

Regulations 2017.

Jyoti Naredi

Legal Representative for the UK Branch

6

