 

Aldingbourne Trust Gender Pay Gap Report 

1.  Introduction  

As  an  English  voluntary-sector  employer  with  more  than  250  employees,  the  Equality  Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 require us to calculate our gender pay 
and gender bonus gaps every year. The first Aldingbourne Trust gender pay gap report was 
taken from a "snapshot date" of the pay period preceding 5th April 2017 (20th March 2017).  

2.  The six metrics required by the legislation 

There are six key metrics that we are required to report on in this year’s report are: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the  difference  in  the  mean  pay  of  full-pay  men  and  women,  expressed  as  a 
percentage is +1.1% 

 

the  difference  in  the  median  pay  of  full-pay  men  and  women,  expressed  as  a 
percentage is    -2.0% 

 

the difference in mean bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage is 
0% 

 

the difference in median bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage 
is 0% 

 

the proportion of people who received bonus pay is men 0% and women 0.6% 

 

the proportion of full-pay men and women in each of four quartile pay bands is as 
follows 

Lower quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Upper quartile 

  men %  Women % 

33% 
31% 
33% 
27% 

67% 
69% 
67% 
73% 

 

We can confirm that the figures have been reached using the mechanisms that are set out 
in the gender pay gap reporting legislation. A copy of the calculating mechanisms used can 
be found on the ACAS.org website (http://www.acas.org.uk/index.aspx?articleid=5768) 

3. The underlying causes of the gender pay gaps 

The  Gender  Pay  Gap  metrics  require  us  to use  two  different  types  of  average  to  measure 
our pay gap so for both genders to come our marginally ahead in one means the result is 
close  to  a  pay  gap  of  zero.  The  Aldingbourne  Trust  therefore  is  delighted  to  share  these 
gender  pay  gap  results  because  they  demonstrate  how  even  gender  pay  is  in  the 
organisation, and how existing and prospective staff can feel confident that organisation’s 
intention to treat people with integrity and fairness is demonstrable.  

 

 

There  are  a  large  variety  of  different  roles  across  the  organisation,  from  Employment 
Consultants  to  Open  Farm  Supports  to  Senior  Support  Workers  to  Powerful  Trainers.  The 
Aldingbourne Trust uses a salary structure to compare the value of each role. This is done 
before  recruitment  commences,  so  whoever  is appointed their  remuneration  is  consistent 
with roles not individual pay. 

In terms of bonuses, because only one operational manager received a performance target 
related  bonus,  there  was  virtually  no  difference  in  these  measures  using  the  ACAS 
calculations. 

The  even  spread  of  both  genders  across  each  pay  quartile  again  underlined  how  evenly 
people  are  rewarded.  The  same  proportion  of  men  and  women  were  in  the  bottom  and 
middle  pay  quartiles.  There  were  proportionally  more  women  than  men  in  the  top  pay 
quartile  because  there  are  more  women  managers  in  senior  management  and  in  project 
management than men. 

4. Comparison against the wider picture 

Across all sectors, the gender pay gap for full-time employees in 2016 was 9.4% in favour of 
men. Very few comparative results are available for 2017 yet, however of those available on 
the  Gender  Pay  Gap  Service  website  at  the  time  of  publishing,  the  following  learning 
disability organisations results were available: 

 
Aldingbourne Trust 
Community Lives Consortium 
Cornerstone Community Care 
Devon and Cornwall Autistic Community Trust 
St Cuthbert’s Care 
St Mungo Community Housing Association 

 

Mean 

Median 

Men +1.1%  Women +2.0% 
Men +3.4% 

0% 
0% 
0% 

Women +2.7% 

Men +2.2% 
Men +0.3%  Women +0.5% 

Women +1.1%  Men +0.1% 

The Aldingbourne Trust’s  gender pay gap results are quite consistent therefore with other 
employers in the learning disability care sector. 

5. Addressing the gender pay gap 

Because  there  is  a  small  gap,  the  Aldingbourne  Trust  will  continue  to  look  for  ways  to 
prevent an increase. There is also an intention to review the Salary Scale during 2018, which 
will need to be handled carefully so that any changes reduce gender pay gaps rather than 
increase  them.  Other  enhancements  that  will  help  gender  pay  are  changes  to  overtime 
payments for part time staff taking holidays and a review of maternity and paternity pay. 

6. Gender pay gap report sign off 

I confirm that the information contained in this report is accurate. 

Frances Russell (Chair), 3rd January 2018 

 

