 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT FOR TRURO AND PENWITH COLLEGE 2017 

Truro and Penwith College is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 31 March 2017 

  The mean gender pay gap for Truro and Penwith College is 9.72 % 

  The median gender pay gap for Truro and Penwith College is 14.12% 

No bonus payments were awarded in the snapshot period, as such there is no data to report for 
these categories. 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

29% 

71% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile 

B 

30% 

70% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

C 

37% 

63% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

D 

44% 

56% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the upper quartile 

The  figures  set  out  above  have been  calculated  using  the  standard  methodologies  used  in  the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

What are the underlying causes of Truro and Penwith College’s gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

 

the same or broadly similar work; 

  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 

  work of equal value. 

Truro and Penwith College is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for  all  employees,  regardless  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age,  marriage  or  civil  partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of 
paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other 
characteristic set out above). As such, it: 

  operates pay scales that establish particular salaries for particular roles; 

  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair pay structure. 

 

Truro and Penwith College is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result 
of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles 
attract. 

Across  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole,  men  are  more  likely  than  women  to  be  in  senior  roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men to 
be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. Women are also more likely than men to 
have had breaks from work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up 
children. They are also more likely to work part time and/or term-time only, and many of the jobs 
that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. 

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of Truro and Penwith 
College's workforce, where the majority of support staff are women (ONS reported in 2016 that 
90% of educational support assistants are women)   This can be seen above in the table depicting 
pay quartiles by gender. This shows Truro and Penwith College's workforce divided into four equal-
sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees 
(the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for 
there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each 
Band. However, within Truro and Penwith College, 71% of the employees in Band A are women 
and 29% men. The percentage  of male employees increases throughout the remaining Bands, 
from 30% in Band B to 44% in Band D. 

How  does  Truro  and  Penwith  College's  gender  pay  gap  compare  with  that  of  other 
organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say 
that  Truro  and  Penwith  College's  gap  compares  favourably  with  that  of  other  organisations, 
including those within the education sector. 

The  mean  gender  pay  gap  for  the  whole  economy  (according  to  the  October  2016  Office  for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.3%, while 
in  the  pubic  sector  it is  18%.  At  9.72%,  Truro  and  Penwith  College's mean  gender  pay  gap  is, 
therefore, significantly lower than both that for the whole economy and that for our sector. 

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2016 ONS ASHE 
figures) is 18.1%, while in the public sector it is 18.3% and in the education sector it is 25.3%. At 
14.12 %, Truro and Penwith College's median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than 
both that for the whole economy and that for our sector. 

Comparison with other organisations 

  

Truro and 
Penwith 
College 

2016 ONS 
ASHE whole 
sector 

2016 ONS 
ASHE Public 
Sector 

2016 ONS 
ASHE 
Education 
Sector 

Mean gender pay gap 

9.72% 

17.3% 

18% 

Not Available 

Median gender pay gap  14.12% 

18.1% 

18.3% 

25.3% 

 

 

What is Truro and Penwith College doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While Truro and Penwith College's gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations 
both across the whole UK economy and within the public sector and Education Sector, this is not 
a  subject  about  which  Truro  and  Penwith  College  is  complacent,  and  it  is  committed  to  doing 
everything that it can to reduce the gap. However, Truro and Penwith College also recognises that 
its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct control over the subjects 
that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make. 

Truro and Penwith College has taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce and 
continues to monitor and take specific action in order to identify any barriers to gender equality and 
inform priorities for action which includes:  

  Monitoring 

o 
o 
o 

o 
o 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited; 
the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions; 
the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for 
leaving;   
the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band;   
the proportion of men and women who return to their original job after a period of 
maternity or other parental leave 
 

  Ensuring staff are aware of the Flexible working policy and that employees in all areas and 
levels of the organisation will be considered for flexible working regardless of their role and 
level of seniority, and that flexible working need not be limited to part-time working.  
 

  Providing affordable childcare onsite (Truro Campus) 

  Raising young people's awareness of the different career opportunities available within 
both the education sector and within sectors that can be perceived as traditionally male 
through partnerships and academies (such as STEM) to help dispel any misperceptions 
and stereotypes. 

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Truro and Penwith College is committed to 
reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress 
that it is making. 

I, Sue Dickinson, Director of Finance, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

 

June 2017 

