 

Abaco Systems Limited 
Tove Valley Business Park 
Towcester,  
Northamptonshire 
NN12 6PF 

Abaco	Systems	Ltd	Gender	Pay	Gap	Report	-	2017	

At Abaco Systems Ltd., we value our people and the contribution they make.  We aim to pay them 
fairly for the work they do and to create a working environment where there are equal opportunities 
for all our people, so they can fulfil their potential and contribute to our business success, irrespective 
of their gender. 

The government has introduced regulations for gender pay gap reporting for companies in the UK.  
Every year, companies with more than 250 employees must report the following: 

•  Mean and median gender pay gap in hourly pay1 
•  Mean and median bonus gender pay gap1 
•  Proportion of men and women who receive a bonus  

•  Distribution of men and women across pay quartiles 

1 The gender pay gap shows the difference between the mean (average) and median (mid-point) hourly earnings and bonus of 
male and female employees, expressed as a percentage of male employees‘ earnings.  

The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.  The gender pay gap shows the difference between 
the average hourly earnings of men and women across the workforce and is about addressing the 
representation of women in the workforce.  Equal pay is about whether a woman and a man 
performing the same work, at the same level, in the same organisation receive the same pay. 

Gender Pay Gap Details 

The table below shows our gender pay gap and bonus pay difference between male and female 
employees.   

Gender Pay Gap 
Hourly Rate of Pay 
Bonus Pay 

Mean  Median 
33.5% 
35.4% 
-61.8% 
15.9% 

 

We have a gender pay gap because of the nature of our organisation.  Abaco Systems designs and 
manufactures rugged embedded computing products for the military, aerospace and industrial 
markets.  Our employee population is split roughly evenly between employees engaged in design 
engineering activities or in manufacturing and supply chain. However, in common with industry in 
general, the majority of employees in the generally higher paid engineering roles are male, with far 
more of our female employees working in the manufacturing/supply chain areas.  Our overall gender 
split is shown below: 

Registered in England and Wales at Old Tiffield Road, Towcester, Northamptonshire, NN12 6PF, United Kingdom.  No. 02151516 VAT No. GB 927 5591 89 

 

 

 

Employee	Gender	DIstribution	

104, 30
% 

245,	70%

Male
Female

 

While we have an overall gender pay gap for the reasons explained above, when looking at the 
population based on quartile pay bands, the picture is very different, as shown in the chart below: 

 

 

Registered in England and Wales at Old Tiffield Road, Towcester, Northamptonshire, NN12 6PF, United Kingdom.  No. 02151516 VAT No. GB 927 5591 89 

 

 

 

 

The gender split within the quartiles again represents the nature of our business. In the two lower 
quartiles, which are represented more by our manufacturing and supply chain employees, the gender 
mix is very even, while in the upper two quartiles, the mix moves much more strongly towards male 
employees in our engineering and senior leadership roles.   

This data also shows in three of the four quartiles, the mean quartile gender pay gap is negative, 
indicating that the average hourly pay of female employees within the quartile is higher than for male 
employees in the same quartile.  Only the upper middle quartile shows a positive mean quartile 
gender pay gap.  The main conclusion to draw from this is that, while we have an overall gender pay 
gap as a result of the nature of our business, employees within any given quartile where they are 
likely to be undertaking similar roles are paid an equal amount, regardless of gender.   

Bonus Pay Gap Details 

A relatively small percentage of our staff overall received bonus payments in the reporting period as 
shown below: 

Our bonus pay gap shows that the mean bonus payments for those male employees who receive a 
bonus are 15.9% higher than for female employees, but the median bonus pay gap of -61.8% shows 
that many of the larger bonus payments are made to female employees.     

 

 

 

I confirm that our published figures are true and accurate to the best of our knowledge 

Andy MacCaig 
Managing Director 
Abaco Systems Limited 

Report	is	based	on	pay	data	for	UK	employees	from	the	‘pay	period’	including	5th	April	2017	(i.e.	payments	made	in	the	month	of	April	2017),	as	specified	by	the	UK	
regulations.		The	pay	calculations	are	based	on	adjusted	basic	salary	received	in	the	month	of	April	2017	and	including	items	such	as	allowances	but	excludes	any	
overtime	payments.		Bonus	pay	includes	items	such	as	sales	commissions,	patent	award	payments,	sign	on	or	retention	bonus	and	other	bonus	payments.			
	
Further	information	on	methods	for	calculating	the	gender	pay	gap	figures	as	well	as	the	results	for	all	qualifying	UK	companies	can	be	found	here:	https://gender-pay-
gap.service.gov.uk/viewing/search-results	
 

Registered in England and Wales at Old Tiffield Road, Towcester, Northamptonshire, NN12 6PF, United Kingdom.  No. 02151516 VAT No. GB 927 5591 89 

 

 

 

