LANCASHIRE COMBINED FIRE AUTHORITY
RESOURCES COMMITTEE
Meeting to be held on 28 March 2018

GENDER PAY GAP
(Appendix 1 refers)

Contact for further information:
Bob Warren, Director of People & Development – 01772 866804

Executive Summary

The Equality Act (2010) (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 came 
into force on 31 March 2017.  These regulations impose a legal obligation for employees 
with  250  or  more  employees  to  publish  gender  pay  details  by  30  March  2018  and  to 
highlight the difference in gross pay and bonus payments made to female as compared 
with male employees.

The Service has and is making improvements in our gender breakdown difference, with 
the latest recruitment processes for whole-time recruitment showing clear progress. The 
Service also has for many years had clear pay structure arrangements (as outlined in the 
Pay Settlement) which provides for equal pay for both men and women across the roles 
throughout  the  organisation.  Members  previously  having  endorsed  the  single  status 
approach  for  “green  book”  employees  utilising  the  local  authority  job  evaluation 
methodology and the adoption of the living wage principles.   It therefore does not have 
an equal pay issue within the Service.  (Men and women who carry out the same jobs or 
similar jobs or work of equal value are paid the same).

It  is  recognised,  however,  that  like  all  fire  and  rescue  services  the  Authority  has  an 
unbalanced  spread  of  male  and  female  employees  in  the  different  occupational  staff 
groups and at different levels and roles. A significant factor is the different construction of 
Terms  &  Conditions  and  remuneration  between  the  “Grey”  and  “Green”  book  roles. 
These factors reflect the diversity and differences in activity and requirements.   These 
are two significant reasons for the gender pay gap outcomes.

In addition the mean gender pay gap is significantly affected by the inclusion of certain 
groups  and  the  methodology  utilised  to  calculate  the  position.  The  guidelines  for  the 
Gender Pay Gap calculation are to enable comparisons to be made across employers. 
In  LFRS  this  provides  an  unexpected  outcome,  if  dual  contract  and  Retained  Duty 
System  (RDS)  employees  are  included  in  the  total  calculation  (as  highlighted  in  the 
report). This outcome being a positive female differential in the mean as opposed to the 
median  calculation.  Although  any  national  formula  is  likely  to  have  unexpected 
outcomes, this is considered by the Executive to be a distortion due to the makeup of 
these  two  particular  groups.  A  truer  reflection  would  be  to  report  the  figure  without 
inclusion of the RDS element in the headline figure.

This  female  positive  result  will  undoubtedly  result  in  scrutiny  and  contact  from 
external bodies. The scrutiny that results could realistically provide adverse publicity 
and  undermine  our  reputation  due  to  the  effect  on  the  calculation  of  these  352 
employees. If these two groups of staff are excluded then a negative pay gap will be 
the outcome, which is more in line with the expectation and the national position, as 
well as other fire services. The Executive Board believes that excluding the RDS and 
Dual contract staff in the headline figure provides a more realistic position and this 
should  be  the  headline  figure  published  rather  than  the  gap  determined  by  the 
national calculation.

Recommendation

The Resources Committee is requested to note this report and 

1. Determine whether to include the RDS related detail in the Gender Pay Gap 

mean calculation; 

2. Authorise the publication of the Gender Pay Gap Report.

1.

Information

The  gender  pay  gap  shows  the  difference  between  the  average  (mean  and 
median) earnings of men and women.  The gender pay gap varies by occupation 
and  working  pattern.   Employers  where  women  are  underrepresented  typically 
produce higher pay gaps.

The  causes  of  the  gender  pay  gap  are  varied  and  overlapping.   Some  causes 
originate outside the workplace, such as stereotyping and careers advice, whilst 
within the work place factors include:

 Unsupportive and rigid corporate cultures
 Lack of flexibility in work patterns
 Lack of well-paid part time work
 Fewer  women  working  in  some  highly  paid  professions,  or  in  certain 

specialisms

 Women remaining less likely to progress to senior levels in an organisation
 Constrained individual choice, unconscious bias and discrimination
 Lack  of  diverse  senior  female  role  models,  meeting,  sponsorship  or 

networking opportunities

 Assumptions that mothers not wanting or being able to accept promotion.

These  general  causes  of  a  pay  gap,  although  already  addressed  by  LFRS 
provides ‘food for thought’ on how LFRS can tackle and reduce the gender pay 
gap,  But  this  first  step  is  to  provide  greater  transparency  about  gender  pay 
differences.  

A gender pay gap does not mean that an employee has acted inappropriately or in 
a discriminatory manner but an explanatory narrative is required.  

Gender Pay Gap Report

Gender  pay  gap  reporting  requires  employers  with  more  than  250  employees  to 
publish statutory calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between 
their  male  and  female  employees.   The  method  for  calculating  this  information  is 
published on the UK government website gov.uk.

Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service (LFRS) are required to report on the following:

Mean gender pay gap

The  difference  between  the  mean  hourly  rate  of  pay  of 
male  employees  and  that  of  female  employees  as  a 
percentage.

Median gender pay gap The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of 
male  employees  and  that  of  female  employees  as  a 
percentage.

Mean bonus gap

Median bonus gap

Bonus proportions

Quartile pay bands

Executive Summary 

The  difference  between  the  mean  bonus  pay  paid  to 
male employees and that paid to female employees as a 
percentage.

The  difference  between  the  median  bonus  pay  paid  to 
male employees and that paid to female employees who 
were paid a bonus during the relevant period.

The proportions of male and female relevant employees 
who were paid a bonus during the relevant period.

The  proportions  of  male  and  female  employees  in  the 
lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay 
bands.

LFRS are committed to achieving a diverse workforce, irrespective of gender and we 
are confident that we are paying the same salary to roles of equivalent value to all 
staff.   LFRS’s overall approach to determining pay of its employees is to participate 
in national collective bargaining for all staff.  

The  UK  average  Gender  Pay  Gap  using  the  National  Statistics  Data  shows  the 
average  pay  gap  for  all  employees  is  18.1%.   Using  this  calculation  methodology 
across  LFRS,  the  mean  gender  pay  gap  is  significantly  different  than  the  national 
average  at  -4.4%  (equating  to  a  £0.50  positive  difference  in  hourly  pay  between 
males and females), with the median gender pay gap equating to 14.3% (equating 
to a £1.98 difference in hourly rates of pay between males and females).  Contained 
within the overall number are, however, significant issues for consideration. 

In  particular  the  inclusion  of  Dual  Contract  and  RDS  employees  appears  to 
significantly  skew  the  mean  pay  gap  due  to  the  method  of  calculation  and  the 
payment arrangements. The common factor between these two groups is a retained 
commitment  if  these  two  groups  are  excluded  then  the revised mean  gender  pay 

gap becomes 19.9% (equating to a £3.29 negative difference) with a median gender 
pay gap of 23.2% (equating to a £3.59 negative difference).

LFRS Pay and Bonus Gender Pay Gap

This  Gender  Pay  Gap  Report  is  based  on  data  as  at  31  March  2017.   LFRS 
employed 1115 staff with 950 (85.2%) being male and 165 (14.8%) being female.

However  within  this  are  123  personnel  who  are  not  included  in  the  calculation  as 
they did not fulfil the required reporting criteria in that they were not in receipt of full 
pay (for example they were on extended sick leave or maternity leave).  

Therefore  the  relevant  numbers  for  reporting  purposes  are  992  staff,  846  make 
(85.3%)  and  146  female  (14.7%).  A  breakdown  of  employees  by  gender  and  staff 
group is shown below.  

If  RDS  (271)  and  dual  contract  (81)  are  removed  from  the  calculation  the  figures 
become 640, 514 (80.3%) and 126 female (19.7%). It is felt that doing this provides a 
more balanced picture as their pay arrangements differ significantly to the majority of 
employees.   For completeness data in respect of mean and median for these RDS 
staff would still be included at table 2.1.

Staff Group

Wholetime (inc. Fire 
Control)

Corporate

RDS

Dual Contracted 
WT & RDS

Total

Females 
Employees

22

% Female 
Employees

2.2%

Male 

Employees

447

104

17

3

146

10.5%

1.7%

0.3%

14.7%

67

254

78

846

% Male 
Employees

45.1%

6.8%

25.6%

7.9%

85.3%

The data in this report has been broken down into four different staff groups that the 
Service employ who each have distinctive terms and conditions:

a) Wholetime  Operational  (including  Fire  Control):  These  are  full  time 
firefighters  and  operational  managers.   Their  terms  and  conditions  are 
negotiated nationally, and salaries are determined in accordance with the role, 
with no reference to gender or any other personal characteristic.  Firefighters 
are paid on an incremental competence based pay scale starting as a trainee, 
progressing  to  development  after  the  initial  training  is  complete  and  then 
competent  once 
the  development  programme  has  been  successfully 
completed and verified.  Also included in this group are the Chief Fire Officer, 
Deputy Chief Fire Officer and Assistant Chief Fire Officer.

b) Corporate Staff: These are largely non-uniformed support staff who are both 
full and part time.  Again, their terms and conditions are negotiated nationally, 
and salaries are determined in accordance with the role, with no reference to 

gender or any other personal characteristic.   Also included in this group are 
the  Director  of  Corporate  Service  and 
the  Director  of  People  and 
Development

c) Retained Operational: These are RDS firefighters and operational managers 
whose  primary  employment  is  outside  the  organisation.   Again,  their  terms 
and  conditions  are  negotiated  nationally,  and  salaries  are  determined  in 
accordance with the role, with no reference to gender or any other personal 
characteristic.   At  the  calculation  date  LFRS  was  unique  in  being  the  only 
English  FRS  to  operate  a  RDS  salary  scheme.  The  Service  now  pays  an 
enhanced rate of retaining fee but pay the standard turnouts, attendances and 
drills fees as prescribed by the national conditions of service.  

d) Dual  Contracted  WT  &   RDS:  These  are  employed  as  Whole-time 
Operational staff in a full time capacity but they supplement this commitment 
by also providing an element of RDS cover 

Table 2 Mean hourly pay rate by gender (detail excluding RDS and Dual 
contract)

All Staff

Female

Male

Pay Gap

Mean Hourly Pay rate

£11.33 (15.87)

Median Hourly Pay Rate

£13.84 (14.91)

£11.75 (13.23)

£11.26 (16.52)

-4.4%  (19.9%)

£11.86 (same)

£13.84 (15.45)

14.3% (23.2%)

Table 2.1 Mean Hourly rate by gender and occupational group
Hourly Rate
Gap

Female

Male

Wholetime

Corporate

RDS

Dual Contract

£15.45

£12.76

£1.86

£5.89

£16.73

£15.14

£1.72

£7.63

-£1.28

-£2.38

£0.14

£1.74

%

7.6%

15.7%

+8.0%

22.9%

Additional  Responsibility  Allowances 

LFRS  does  not  offer  a  bonus  scheme  therefore  this  measure  has  not  been 
calculated.  
(ARA’s)  and  Continuous 
Development (CPD) payments are included in ordinary pay.  For clarity, ordinary pay 
is  defined  as  basic  pay,  shift  premium  pay,  pay  for  piecework,  pay  for  leave  and 
allowances.

What do the mean and median gender pay gap figures tell us?
The mean gives an overall indication of the size of the gender pay gap in LFRS.   A 
high  mean  gender  pay  gap  indicates  that  a  payment  system  is  operated  that  may 
disadvantage  women.   The  median  gender  pay  gap  gives  an  indication  of  what  a 
‘typical’ situation is.   Measuring both the mean and the median percentages allows 

LFRS to understand and consider the issue better including establishing what people 
are  paid  and  also  how  the  outliers  affect  the  overall  distribution  of  pay  between 
males and females (the mean).  It should be noted that the presence of a gender pay 
gap is not an indication that unlawful discrimination exists at LFRS.  Within LFRS the 
difference is related to the structural distribution.

The mean gender pay gap indicates that when comparing the mean average hourly 
rates,  female’s  earnings  is  4.4%  more  (or  19.9%  less)  than  male’s  earnings.   The 
median  gender  pay  gap  at  LFRS  demonstrates  that  based  on  the  median  hourly 
rates, females at LFRS earn 85.7% (76.8%) of the males’ earnings.

Quartile Distribution

The quartile distribution detailed below gives an indication of how males and females 
are distributed across the service.

Table 3 Quartile distribution by male and female

Hourly Rate 

Female % Female

Lower

Lower 
Middle

Upper 
Middle

Upper

Range

£0.93 - £2.49

£2.49 - £13.84

£13.84 
£16.54

£16.54 
£71.22

- 

- 

15

95

14

22

6%

38%

6%

9%

Male

% Male

Total

233

153

234

226

94%

62%

94%

91%

248

248

248

248

Commentary:

The formula used to calculate the gender gap divides the remuneration received by 
individuals  by  the  hours  of  duty,  when  this  is  applied  to  an  individual  working  a 
retained  duty  system  the  hours  of  cover  provided  on  call  significantly  reduces  the 
hourly  rate  of  pay  received.  In  addition  at  the  calculation  date,  RDS  staff  in  LFRS 
received a salary payment predicated on their hours of cover which emphasised that 
as a salary was paid the calculation reduced earnings per hour and corresponds with 
the government calculation. The result is the overall figure is distorted. In gender pay 
gap terms this would not be an issue if the gender balance was similar but the RDS 
numbers are 17 females v 254 males. This in effect means that the 254 RDS and the 
78 male dual contract individuals, as opposed to 20 RDS and dual contract females, 
reduces the male hourly rate appreciably in the original calculation.   

There  is  a  high  proportion  of  male  employees  employed  on  the  National  Joint 
Council  (NJC)  for  Local  Authority  Fire  and  Rescue  Service  terms  and  conditions 
(known commonly as the ‘Grey Book’), which attract additional allowances that are 
not available to staff conditioned to the NJC for Local Government Service (‘Green 
Book’) support staff, the majority of which are female. These additional allowances  
increases Grey Book average earnings and moves this staff group up to the lower 
middle quartile.

An example being that whilst basic salary across the support and uniformed staff is 
broadly  comparable,  uniformed  staff  receive  recompense  for  their  shift  weekend 
working and unsocial hours in their basic pay regardless of requirement, whereas the 
same does not apply to individuals conditioned to a green book role. i.e. a firefighter 
is paid the same salary whether on a day shift or 2,2,4,  

The  majority  of  female  part  time  staff  are  also  found  in  the  lower-middle  quartile.  
This could be reflective of the family friendly nature of LFRS policies, whereby staff 
are  afforded  benefits  such  as  flexible  working  and  part  time  working  to  fit  around 
family commitments.  In addition, many of the roles are filled by younger employees 
who have just commenced their careers. 

The  proportion  of  females  in  the  upper  middle  and  upper  quartile  is  reasonably 
reflective of the overall proportion of females within LFRS.  The upper-middle quartile 
is predominantly male, but this is where the majority of staff undertaking the role of 
Firefighter can be found.  A high proportion of males undertake the role of Firefighter 
so it is therefore unsurprising that this quartile is male dominated. 

It  is  recognised  that  women  are  significantly  underrepresented  in  the  operational 
workforce and consequently LFRS is committed to increasing the number of female 
firefighters.   This forms an important part of LFRS’s approach to equality, diversity 
and inclusion within the Service.  The recruitment freeze has limited opportunities to 
address this imbalance. LFRS is now undertaking positive action initiatives aimed at 
encouraging  people  from  underrepresented  groups  to  apply  for  positions  in  the 
organisation.   Recruitment  activity  is  locally  monitored  (including  the  levels  of 
attraction  and  appointment) 
inform  process 
improvements.

identify  problem  areas 

to 

to 

Should  revised  tables  be  used  removing  RDS  and  dual  contract  then  this 
commentary would need to be amended.

Financial Implications

None identified.

Sustainability or Environmental Impact

Not applicable.

Equality and Diversity Implications

The  Gender  Pay  Gap  report  provides  information  to  inform  and  guide  Equality, 
Diversity and Inclusion initiatives with the information being utilised to taking suitable 
steps to address any issues.

Human Resource Implications

The  report  informs  both  workforce  planning  and  equality,  diversity  and  inclusion 
initiatives and gain indication if ‘talent’ is not being effectively utilised.

Business Risk Implications

Failure  to  report  against  these  regulations  will  lead  to  reputational  damage  to  the 
Authority.  The  detail  reported  may  lead  to  adverse  comment  and/or  reputational 
damage.  The  Authority  has  a  choice  between  reporting  utilising  the  Governments 
methodology or reporting capturing the spirit of the requirement. 

Local Government (Access to Information) Act 1985
List of Background Papers

Paper

Date

Reason for inclusion in Part II, if appropriate:

Contact
Bob Warren

Appendix of Revised tables if RDS & Dual Contract staff removed from main 
calculation

Table 2 Mean hourly pay rate by gender

All Staff

Female

Male

Pay Gap

Mean Hourly Pay rate

£15.87

Median Hourly Pay Rate

£14.91

£13.23

£16.52

19.9%

£11.86 

£15.45

23.2%

Table 2.1 Mean Hourly rate by gender and occupational group
Hourly Rate
Gap

Female

Male

Whole-time

Corporate

RDS

Dual Contract

£15.45

£12.76

£1.86

£5.89

£16.73

£15.14

£1.72

£7.63

-£1.28

-£2.38

£0.14

£1.74

%

7.6%

15.7%

+8.0%

22.9%

Table 3 Quartile distribution by male and female

Hourly Rate 

Female % Female

90
5

16

15

56%
3%

10%

9%

Male

% Male

Total

70
155

144

145

44%
97%

90%

91%

160
160

160

160

Range

£7.73 - £13.84
£13.84-£14.91

£14.91-£18.17

Lower
Lower 
Middle

Upper 
Middle

Upper

£18.71- £71.22

