KCA Deutag Drilling Limited

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Addressing the Gender Pay Gap

Introduction  

KCA  Deutag  Drilling  Limited  (“KCA  Deutag”) 
today provides details of its gender pay gap in 
compliance  with  new  government  legislation 
which requires any UK company with more than 
250 employees to publish specified gender pay 
gap statistics.

The gender pay gap is a measure which shows 
the difference between the gross average hourly 
earnings  of  all  women  in  an  organisation  and 
the  gross  average  hourly  earnings  of  all  men, 
expressed  as  a  percentage  of  men’s  earnings. 
It  takes  into  account  all  jobs,  at  all  levels  and 
salaries. These can be affected by many different 
factors 
in  certain 
industries  and  roles  which  resulted  in  one 
gender dominating over another.  

including  historic  trends 

The  gender  pay  gap  is  not  about  equal  pay 
for men and women doing the same job.  KCA 
Deutag  has  robust  policies  in  place  to  ensure 
that pay levels are regularly and fairly reviewed.

Please  note  that  this  report  and  the  statistics 
provided  only  apply  to  our  UK  entity  KCA 
Deutag Drilling Limited and not the KCA Deutag 
group, which operates internationally.

The entrenched gender pay gap in the 
UK oil and gas industry

In  today’s  report  you  will  see  that  in  each  of 
the  statistics  provided  not  only  do  we  have 
significantly  fewer  women  than  men  working 
across our organisation in the UK but that their 
average earnings are also lower than men’s, with 
a median gender pay gap as at 5 April 2017 of 
29.2%.      This  gap  in  gender  pay  is  evident  not 
just at KCA Deutag but across the wider UK oil 
and gas industry.  

The  oil  and  gas  industry  has  been  traditionally 
male dominated and this remains the case today.  
Globally  women  represent  around  one  fifth  of 
employees  in  the  oil  and  gas  sector1.  In  KCA 
Deutag approximately 1 in 4 UK employees are 

female, and the majority of those work in office 
based support functions with low representation 
in  operational  roles  and  in  senior  positions 
where  remuneration  is  higher  in  both.  This  is 
consistent with the global employment profile of 
the industry1.

There are a number of reasons for this but the 
key  one  is  that  there  are  much  fewer  women 
graduating  from  university  with  the  required 
technical  skills  to  carry  out  operational  rig 
based  roles.  In  the  UK,  women  accounted  for 
only  24%  of  science,  technology,  engineering 
and  mathematics  (STEM)  graduates  in  2017 
and  in  engineering  and  technology,  this  figure 
was just 14%2.  When this is combined with the 
reduced  flexibility  that  comes  from  being  part 
of  an  organisation  which  operates  24/7,  and 
in  many  cases  with  the  added  dimension  of 
working offshore, often on rotation, the number 
of female applicants shrinks even further.

Whilst  the  oil  and  gas  industry  is  a  fantastic 
industry  to  work  in,  it  has  so  far  had  limited 
success in promoting the various opportunities 
within it to female employees, and as a result it 
still has a lot of work to do to transform its image 
and appeal more to this part of the population.  
 
We  cannot  expect  this  change  to  happen 
quickly.    The  reality  is  that  as  employees  we 
have  a  choice  about  where  we  work  and  are 
naturally interested in some sectors and jobs but 
not others.  Our role as a major employer is to 
ensure that we make our business as attractive 
as possible to both male and female employees 
and  then  once  they  join  our  company,  provide 
them with all the support they need to broaden 
and develop their careers with us, so that they 
stay for the long term. Please refer to “Taking 
action on the gender pay gap”, page 3.

As  KCA  Deutag’s  Senior  Vice  President  - 
Human Resources, I believe that gender and 
cultural  diversity  are  imperative  if  we  are 
to have a balanced, inclusive and successful 
workforce, and it is something that we will 
be  taking  very  seriously  over  the  coming 
years as we look to expand our business. 

1. 
2. 

BCG untapped reserves 2017
Wise Resources 2017

1

KCA Deutag’s gender pay gap statistics

The table below shows KCA Deutag’s mean and median gender pay gap in the UK based on the hourly 
rates of pay as at 5 April 2017.  It also captures the mean and median differences between bonuses 
paid to men and women at KCA Deutag in the year ended 5 April 2017. In each measure, women on 
average appear to receive less.  However, this gap is because of the unequal distribution of men and 
women across our organisation and the varying roles they carry out.  It is not because of there not being 
equal pay for equal work.

Pay and Bonus Gap 
Difference between men and women

 

 

 

Hourly earnings  

Bonus paid 

 

 

 

 

             Mean %   

           Median %

  

  

  30.3 

  62.8 

 

 

      

      

   29.2

   61.1

Calculation: The difference between male and female mean and median earnings as a percentage of male earnings

These results compare to a gap in UK median hourly earnings (excluding overtime) of 18.4% across all 
industries and an estimated 31.5%3 in the petroleum and natural gas extraction support activities sector.  

Proportion of our employees who received a bonus for 2016/17

The  pie  charts  below  show  the  percentage  of  women  and  men  who  received  a  bonus.  The  male 
percentage is lower as our UK North Sea operation was entirely crewed by men and has a different pay 
structure, which reflects the offshore environment in which they work.

Women

Men

% of Women

% of Men

3. 

National Office for Statistics -2017 Provisional Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings Gender Pay Gap Tables released on 26 October 2017.  

2

Pay Quartiles 

KCA Deutag had 441 employees on full pay in the UK as at 5 April 2017, of which 24% were female.  The 
table below shows the proportion of men to women in four equally sized pay bands ranked from the 
lowest hourly rate to the highest hourly rate. It is calculated by dividing the workforce into four equal 
parts.

Women %

Men %

Lower quartile pay band

Lower middle quartile pay band

Upper middle quartile pay band 

Upper quartile pay band

41%

29%

10%

16%

59%

71%

90%

84%

Taking action on the gender pay gap

KCA Deutag’s vision is to be the world’s most successful drilling and engineering contractor through 
measurable performance improvement delivering safe, effective, trouble-free operations.  To achieve 
this, the company must have the best people in the right roles.  It is clear that there is a critical pool 
of female talent which must be unlocked and the company is keen to address this.  There are no 
guarantees on what we can deliver but we are totally committed to improving the gender imbalance 
that exists in our business and have in place a number of initiatives which we believe will begin to 
deliver results.  These will support the business to attract, engage, develop and retain world class 
female talent and include the following.

1.   Attract 

•  We  will  increase  our  engagement  with 
schools  and  universities  to  help  them 
promote  science,  technology,  engineering 
and  maths  subjects  and  the  range  of 
opportunities  within  the  industry  among 
girls and young women.

•  All  job  advertisements  are  gender  neutral 
and  we  ensure 
that  candidates  are 
considered on merit and not gender. Over 
the  last  12  months  34%  of  UK  onshore 
vacancies  have  been  successfully  filled  by 
female applicants. To ensure our employees 
fully  grow  their  careers  with  us  we  also 
advertise  positions  internally  before  any 
external recruitment.

3

•  We use Hay Group Paynet4 market data in 
the  UK  to  ensure  that  every  employee  is 
fairly and consistently compensated.  This 
is  a  global  online  library  of  jobs  and  pay, 
with  data  on  16  million  employees  from 
24,000  organisations  in  more  than  110 
countries.

•  Where  possible  we  offer  job  sharing  and 

flexible working.

•  We  comply  with  all  legal  requirements  to 

ensure gender and cultural diversity. 

2.   Engage

•  This  year  we  will  launch  the  KCA  Deutag 
Gender  Diversity  and  Equality  Forum. 
This  will  meet  on  a  regular  basis  with  the 
specific objective of encouraging diversity 
in our workplace.

•  We  routinely  share  the  successes  of  our 
employees  through  our 
internal  news 
channels  to  inspire  our  colleagues  both 
in the UK and internationally, and provide 
them with gender and cultural role models.

3.   Develop and Retain

•  Our 

leadership 

and 
development 
mentoring  programmes  ensure 
that 
our    high  potential  employees  fulfil  their 
potential  and  progress 
the 
company  to  different,  and  where  the 
opportunity  arises,  more  senior  positions.  
43% of people currently on the mentoring 
programme are female.

through 

•  We have implemented a global succession 
planning  programme  which  identifies  the 
next generation of leaders in the business 
regardless of gender.

•  As part of our quarterly reporting, we review 
the  age,  ethnicity  and  gender  analysis  of 
new  hires,  promotions  and  leavers.    This 
helps us to identify barriers and take action 
as required.

This does not mean however that KCA Deutag 
will  employ  someone  without  considering 
their  respective  qualifications  for  the  role.  
We are an equal opportunities employer and 
will always employ the best candidate for the 
position.    However,  we  strongly  believe  that 
the company will benefit from a more balanced 
workforce through increased productivity and 
competitiveness.  

This  is  the  start  of  a  journey  for  us  and  as  a 
result,  it  may  take  time  for  us  to  see  some 
significant change.  However, we are confident 
that  these  initiatives  will  begin  to  have  an 
impact  and  that  we  will  see  some  progress 
when  we  report  on  our  gender  pay  gap  for 
2018.    

Statement

I  confirm  that  the 
information  and  data 
provided in this report is accurate and in line 
with mandatory requirements.

Lynne Clow
Senior Vice President - Human Resources

4. 

www.haygrouppaynet.com 

4

