The Clancy Group Plc

Gender Pay Gap Report

2016/2017 Pay Data

Gender Pay Gap Statement

At The Clancy Group Plc, we believe that our people are our greatest asset and as a result, the ability to be able to retain employees and attract new talent 
for the future is a key focus area.  

Our mission ‘to make life better for all our families’ is inclusive in its intent and provides us with a platform to enable a culture that is fair and respectful for 
all. Furthermore, our 6S strategy demonstrates our desire to invest in our people at every opportunity and our commitment to all of our staff, regardless of 
gender.   We want to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to perform, develop and be successful irrespective of their gender. 

Despite our conscious efforts, our gender pay gap calculations identify that a gender pay gap exists in our organisation, however, we believe this reflects our 
industry.  Like many other organisations in our industry, we have a smaller population of female employees in our workforce and in senior roles compared to 
other sectors, all of which has a significant impact on our gap calculations.

As a result of this, we are working hard to increase the number of females entering our industry and the organisation.   We are also committed to supporting 
women once they join us and ensuring that they maximise their potential.   Our work, both internally and with industry bodies, to address our diversity 
challenges remains a focus for us.

I can confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report for The Clancy Group Plc is accurate and has been produced in accordance with the 
guidance on managing gender pay developed by the Arbitration and Conciliation Services (ACAS).

David Pegg 

Director

Our Results

The Clancy Group Plc believes in the value of diversity and understands the need for its workforce to reflect the 
customers and communities in which it works.  Below are our results for 2017. 

GENDER PAY AND BONUS PAY GAPS

BONUS PROPORTIONS BY GENDER

Mean Gender Pay Gap*

18.74%

Median Gender Pay Gap*

20.81%

* data on 5th April 2017
** data for 12 months ending 5th April 2017

Mean Gender Bonus Pay 

Gap**

72.68%

Median Gender Bonus 

Pay Gap**

32.81%

68.07% 

69.49% 

Our Results
PAY QUARTILES

Lower Quartile

Female

27%

Upper Middle Quartile

Female

5%

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

Male
73%

Female

11%

Male
95%

Female

8%

Note: Proportion of males and females in each pay 
quartile equals 644 employees

Male
89%

Male
92%

Understanding the Gap

We are confident that our employees are paid equally for work that is of an equivalent 
value across our organisation.

A gender pay gap exists within our business as a result of the significant difference in 
the number of males and females employed by the organisation. 87% of our employees 
are males and this weighted distribution of men to women highly influences our gap 
rather than there being an explicit difference in the reward framework for women and 
men doing the same role. 

A large proportion of our workforce are males who work in the Operational Delivery 
area of our business. Due to the nature of the work being carried out, a remuneration 
framework is in place that includes overtime, shift premiums and productivity bonuses 
paid on a regular basis. This framework is not the same across the business, therefore, 
this by its very nature has contributed to the outcome of our gender pay gap analysis. 

Furthermore, our Management team consists mostly of males. This gender profile 
influences to our gender pay gap data in relation to the differences in pay and bonus for 
men and women.

Our Commitment to Addressing the Gap

1.

Attract and retain a more diverse workforce at all levels

We believe that attracting a diverse workforce is key to the success of our 
business. Diversity in both experience and gender will enable us to 
address the skills shortage that exists in our industry and our organisation.  
Having specific attraction strategies along with a supportive framework for 
those who are employed by the organisation will help to address any 
gender gaps. 

2.

Continue to invest in our people

Enabling our employees to fulfil their potential is key to our success.  We 
have a progressive development framework that we believe will enable 
females to have successful careers within our business.

3.

Rewarding our people

We are reviewing our reward framework to ensure that it recognises the 
value that all roles add to the organisation.  We have made changes to our 
maternity pay scheme that now reflect what other sectors offer in order to 
attract females into the industry and our organisation.

