Our Gender Pay  
report 2018.

 

Understanding the Gender Pay Gap.
WHAT IS IT?
The Gender Pay Gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings between 
women and men in a company: the lower the number, the smaller the discrepancy.

HOW DOES IT DIFFER TO EQUAL PAY?
The Gender Pay Gap is entirely separate to Equal Pay, which is the legal requirement that men and 
women in the same workplace be given equal pay for the same work. At Hoare Lea, we are confident 
that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs. We have a Career Paths Framework 
that ensures performance and pay are mapped against set factors and competencies, and is therefore 
gender neutral by design.

WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
The UK’s Gender Pay Gap is currently at 18.1 percent. To try to reduce it further, the Government is 
requiring large employers to publish both their Gender Pay Gap and Gender Bonus Gap annually, with 
the hope that companies will take measures to reduce their gaps.

  With us, it’s personal.
“ People are at the heart of Hoare Lea – they  
make our firm the successful, dynamic, and 
welcoming place we know it to be. Our  
increasingly diverse workforce is already 
impacting positively on the firm, but we  
recognise we have a long journey ahead.  
We’re committed to reducing our Gender  
Pay Gap every year, supported by a range of  
firm-wide initiatives. Yet, we also see the  
bigger picture... and we’re determined to help 
our industry in its efforts to improve the 
perception of engineering, broaden its talent 
pipeline, and attract and retain more women.”

Gary Tucker 
Managing Partner
Hoare Lea

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 2018A wider look at gender pay & our initiatives.

15%

11%

2012        2018

The proportion of young women 
studying engineering in the UK 
is 14% and this has remained 
virtually static since 2012.
Source: Talent 2030 Dashboard, National  

Centre for Universities and Business 

Women holding management 

positions in the science,  

engineering, and technology 

industries is at just 15%.

Source: 2017 Women in STEM workforce,  

WISE Campaign

Women make up just 11% of 
the professional engineering 
workforce compared to 42% of 

the UK’s overall workforce. 
Source: 2017 Women in STEM workforce,  

WISE Campaign

It’s important to understand and acknowledge the mix of factors that are causing the engineering industry’s 
gender diversity issues. We have implemented a range of initiatives and programmes across our firm, to help 
tackle three key areas: 

Representation.

If women (and young people not yet in employment) don’t see people of their gender succeeding in a company, 
they are likely to be discouraged from pursuing that career or attempting further progression. Women make up 
24% of our firm’s workforce. This is much better than the wider engineering industry, but is less than the 42% of 
the UK’s national workforce. We’re helping to change this, through: 

BOARD-LEVEL STR ATEGY
Our Executive Board is implementing additional family-friendly policies, as well as setting and 
reporting against targets for a better proportion of women at all levels of the firm. A key  
target is to ensure women make up at least 20% of the firm’s partners by 2035 (currently 2%).

STEM AMBASSADORS
We have 45 people working as STEM ambassadors to engage young people with engineering. 
In response to survey findings that girls would be inspired to pursue engineering if there were 
more people like them in industry, 30% of our STEM ambassadors are female.

INDUSTRY ACTIVITIES
We are actively engaged with associated industry activities, and co-vice-chair the CIBSE 
Inclusivity panel. The firm is participating in the 2018 Year of the Engineer to transform the 
perception of our industry for school-age pupils, in particular young girls.

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 2018Inclusive culture.

If a fully inclusive culture isn’t championed through company initiatives, flexibility, and behaviours, women are 
more likely to feel isolated, unsupported, and even unable to continue working. The percentage of women in our 
firm has increased over the years but the continued male skew has led to more male employees in higher positions 
compared to females. In response, we’ve implemented:

DEVELOPMENT PROGR AMMES
The firm has committed to proportionate representation of women on all development 
programmes, and our Women’s Development Programme was set up to help increase the 
number of women in senior positions, to create a culture that helps them to perform at  
their best, and to make us an employer of choice for top female talent.

121 TR ANSITION COACHING
We have tailored coaching available to women and their line managers before, during, and 
on return from maternity/adoption leave, to offer support and guidance, and to manage any 
challenges they may experience throughout their transition. 

Unconscious bias.

Unconsciously, human beings are often drawn to people who are similar to them. These biases are therefore 
found in the workplace and can affect who gets hired, promoted, and developed.

FIRM-WIDE TR AINING
We are rolling out a programme of unconscious bias training in 2018.

POSITIVE RECRUITMENT
During the last three years, our average female graduate intake has been 19%, compared to 
the 15% studying an engineering degree. As a firm, we are committed to continually recruiting 
a higher proportion of female graduates compared to those graduating.

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 2018Our gender pay data from 2017.

To create our full Gender Pay Gap report, in April 2017 we looked at: 
1. Our firm’s Gender Pay Gap   2. Our firm’s Gender Bonus Gap   3. Our firm’s gender split by pay quartile   
We were required to exclude anyone who wasn’t paid their ‘normal full pay’ during the month of April 2017 from the 
calculations. This includes anyone on maternity leave, paternity leave, sabbatical, or off sick during probation.

1. Gender Pay Gap.

Mean*  

gender pay gap

22.4%

Median†

gender pay gap 

28.5%

LOWEST PAID

MEDIAN

HIGHEST PAID

UK Median† 
gender pay gap

18.1%

†  MEDIAN: If all company 

employees were lined up in a 
female line and a male line, in 
order of pay from highest to 
lowest, the median compares 
the pay between the female 
and the male in the middle of 
their lines.

*  MEAN: The overall average 

pay of the whole sample.

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 20182. Gender Bonus Gap.

Our Gender Bonus Gap results show a positive story – with the median and mean gaps equal to and in favour 
of females, respectively. However, our bonus gender ratio shows significantly more men receive bonuses than 
women, as we have fewer females in senior positions.

Median  

bonus pay gap 

0%

Mean  

bonus pay gap 

-11.1%

Percentage of  
males eligible for  
a bonus: 

13.8%

Percentage of  
females eligible  
for a bonus: 

1.6%

3. Gender split, by pay quartile.

Our results show the number of women in our firm’s top pay quartile is lower than the amount of men.

Q1

70

Q3

31

Q2

124

64

127

KEY
If all our employees were 
ordered from highest to 
lowest paid and then split 
into four groups, this looks 
at the ratio of men and 
women in each quartile.

Q4

162

17

175

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 2018Our commitment.
Diversity’s positive impacts are far reaching, from increased motivation 
to better performance. Our firm is dedicated to creating an inclusive 
environment that allows everyone to perform at their best and that people 
want to be part of. We know there are many young girls and women out 
there who could make a big impact on both our firm and industry, and 
we’re committed to providing better opportunities to empower them to 
reach this potential. 

Hoare Lea Gender Pay Gap 2018