 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Teesside University 

 
 

Gender Pay Report 

2017 

 

1 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

INTRODUCTION 

 

 
 

 

Teesside University is committed to reducing any inequalities in the experience and attainment 
of staff and students, and to ensure that the whole University community can understand and 
achieve their potential. Our Equality Objectives set out how the University aims to achieve this 
and includes a specific objective for reducing the gender pay gap. 

The University has an ethos of inclusivity and a structure that supports this ethos in which all 
levels of staff have a voice to raise awareness of any observed inequalities and to enable the 
identification of any barriers staff and students face to achieving their full potential. The 
University community has a strong desire to break down any real or perceived barriers, if it is 
within the remit of the institution to do so, and has policies outlining expected behaviours, 
supported with mandatory training for all staff. Both staff and students have regular 
opportunities to learn about difference and to create an institution where everyone feels 
supported and able to be the best they can be. 

COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY 

There is strong evidence that the University is achieving its equality objectives, not just in the 
data we produce and publish each year which demonstrate progress, but also in external 
validation as evidenced below. 

  The University has been in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index top 100 for the last 

three years, one of few Universities in England to do so and the only University in the 
North East to achieve this accolade.  

  The University subscribes to the ‘Disability Confident’ scheme and is currently working 

with Department of Work and Pensions to achieve the highest level of compliance.  

  We subscribe to the Equality Challenge Unit, an organisation which supports the sector 

around best practice and we also work with our local public sector organisations to share 
best practice across the Tees Valley.  

  The University is a member of Athena Swan. 
  Our staff survey, administered by Capita on behalf of the University, scored highly in 

relation to equality and inclusion. 

  We celebrate a diverse calendar of awareness raising events throughout the year on 

campus, and, for some years now we have hosted a series of activities supporting 
International Women’s Day, aimed at inspiring women and girls to be the best they can 
be. 

Given the progress made against our equality objectives and the significant achievements in 
this field, our persistent gender pay gap, although reducing, is disappointing. However, the 
issue is complex and is prevalent not just across higher education but within most sectors and 
industries, mainly due to societal biases and expectations that effect the life choices of all 
genders.  However, this is not an excuse but a situation that requires careful study and 
appropriate action to reduce the gap to as near to zero as possible. 

The University continues to strive to achieve gender pay equality and has identified a number 
of actions, as part of its Action Plan, which will address the pay gap with the aim of reducing it 
to achieve pay equilibrium.  

2 

 

CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION 
 
Teesside University has been undertaking equal pay audits since 2004 and the data and 
commentary for this audit is published in the Equality and Diversity Annual Reports. In recent 
years these audits have included comparisons for ethnicity and disability as well as gender, and it 
is hoped that we will eventually review equal pay across all protected characteristics. In 2016 the 
new gender pay gap reporting legislative requirements required us to report the data in a slightly 
different format. However, whichever format we use, the data is telling us the same basic 
information: 

  The University employs more female staff than male staff, 61%/39% 
  Across pay bands/job roles men and women are paid the same. 
  The gender pay gap is vertical rather than horizontal, meaning that more women are 

concentrated in the lower paid job roles. 

  More men than women are in the most senior jobs. 
  More women than men work part time. 
  For BME staff there is a positive pay gap. 
  For disabled staff there is a positive pay gap. 

One issue which affects our gender pay gap is that Teesside University employs its own manual 
staff. There is, traditionally, a higher concentration of female staff in these lower paid roles, 
specifically in cleaning and catering. In many institutions these roles are contracted out and 
therefore this group of staff do not appear in staff data, giving those organisations a lower (better) 
pay gap figure. If we were to remove our manual staff from our mean gender pay gap data, this 
reduces the figure to 14% compared to our published figure of 18%. At Teesside we are proud of 
the fact that our lowest paid employees are in receipt of the Voluntary Living Wage, in contrast to 
the lower national minimum wage.  However, at Teesside University we are committed to retaining 
an in-house manual workforce and paying them the Voluntary Living Wage. 

In academic year 2015-2016, there was a mean gender pay gap of 17.8% and a median gender 
pay gap of 13.7 % in UK HEIs according to the Equality Challenge Unit (ECU). The University is 
very similar to the mean gender pay gap but, for the reasons noted above, has a higher pay gap 
than the median gender pay gap. 
 
The University continues to develop its approaches to reducing the gender pay gap. As an equal 
pay employer it is important to us that we identify and address areas which may impact on the 
gender pay gap. An example would be the predominance of women in the roles of cleaning and 
catering. Historically, in this region, these roles have been seen to be primarily available for 
women and, as a result, the majority of applicants for these roles have been women. The 
University is attempting to change this cultural perception by making it clear that the roles are 
available for anyone regardless of gender. The University has also made strides in appointing 
women to senior positions in the University, including the Pro Vice-Chancellor of Enterprise and 
Business Engagement, the Executive Director of Legal and Governance Services and University 
Secretary and the Executive Director of Human Resources who are all members of the 
University’s Executive Team. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

EQUAL PAY 
 
The University is an equal pay employer. This means that female and male employees are paid 
the same pay for the same types of work. Additionally, the University applies the Voluntary Living 
Wage in order to ensure that females and males in the lower pay bands receive a fair wage. The 
University considers this approach to be a key component of ensuring staff not only receive equal 
pay irrespective of gender but also that it supports our efforts to reduce the gender pay gap. 
However, as the gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay there is some work to be done to 
ensure that, whilst the University continues to support the principles and legal requirement of 
equal pay, the University implements approaches and actions to reduce the gender pay gap. 
 
Our pay scales mean that men and women receive the same pay for the same type of work as we 
conduct Higher Education Role Analysis (HERA) for all our roles on the pay scale. This means 
that roles are fairly and appropriately evaluated to ensure that work is graded at the same level as 
other, similar work. Men and women applying for roles therefore will receive the same pay for 
those roles as the grading system ensures parity of work and pay. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

The mean and median gender pay gap – based on an hourly rate of pay 

The mean and median bonus gender pay gap and the proportion of males and females 
receiving a bonus payment 

 

 

18% 

34% 

 

 

 

 

£17.76 

£21.64 

£13.11 

£19.79 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

 
GENDER PAY DATA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band 
 
 
 
 

Median Gender Bonus Gap 

Mean Gender Bonus Gap 

£10,657 

£28,485 

£10,657 

£28,485 

Upper Middle 

Quartile

Lower Middle 

Quartile

Lower Quartile 

Bottom

 

 

63% 

63% 

 

 

1438 

1036 

 

 

Total Employees 

2474 

0.04% 

0.08% 

 

 

Proportion Receiving Bonus 

3 

Upper Quartile

Quartile

32%

34%

68%

66%

51%

49%

51%

49%

197 

422 

males 

females 

213 

405 

males 

females 

313 

306 

males 

females 

313 

males 

305 

females 

 

 

5 

HOW TEESSIDE UNIVERSITY IS WORKING TO CLOSE 
THE GAP 
 
 

 

 

 

Activities to encourage women to 
apply for promotion including 
support through leadership and 
development programmes, 
academic career pathways 
mentoring schemes, positive role 
models and inspirational events. 

Review family friendly policies 
and processes including making 
information easier to find, 
identifying and promoting best 
practice initiatives and monitoring 
to ensure they are being applied 
consistently. 

Positive action in recruitment 
campaigns including positive 
action statements (‘we welcome a 
range of diverse candidates’) and 
specifying to recruitment agencies 
that we expect a diverse range of 
candidates for all roles. 

 

 

 

 

 

Committed to Athena Swan, 
developing approaches to enable 
unequivocal gender equality 
across the University. 

Continuous review of our reward 
practices and policies to ensure 
reward and pay decisions are 
equitable and transparent. 

Maintaining and improving our 
current Level 2 Disability 
Confident support, incorporating 
clear reasonable adjustments. 

 

 

 

Positive action in workforce 
planning including incorporating 
equality and diversity metrics in 
the process and encouraging men 
into lower grades as well as 
women into higher grades. 

Review training for staff involved 
in recruitment including more 
unconscious bias training, 
specifically around gender and a 
mandatory refresh of training 
every 5 years. 

Supporting all employees with 
health and wellbeing practices 
and processes to ensure fair and 
equal treatment underpinned by 
the Better Health at Gold Work 
Award. 

 

 

 

Being a Stonewall Top 100 
Employer, supporting diversity 
throughout the University.  

 

Longer term to work with students 
in outreach work in schools to 
overturn traditional stereotypes 
impacting on education and 
career choices. 

 

 

 

 

Longer term to develop equality 
in careers by encouraging 
women to stay in STEM study and 
progress into STEM academia. 

 

Teesside University is developing an Action Plan as part of its approach to Athena Swan and in order to address 
the Gender Pay Gap, incorporating the actions described on this page with the aim to, firstly, reduce the gap and 
then to reach equilibrium of pay across the genders.  

 

6 

