MacIntyre Hudson LLP

Gender Pay 
Gap report – 
April 2017

1

www.macintyrehudson.comExecutive Summary

MacIntyre Hudson LLP is a firm of chartered accountants, tax 
and business advisers and is required by law to publish an 
annual gender pay gap report. We strongly believe in equality 
and we are confident that the gender pay gap reported does 
not stem from women and men being paid differently for 
different work, but rather from other factors. Our gender pay 
gap statistics in this report are lower than the UK average and 
our sector average, however, these results will not make us 
complacent and the firm will continue to take proactive steps 
to bring the gap closer to zero.

This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. The 
figures shown have been calculated using the standard 
methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017.

• 
• 
• 
• 

The mean gender pay gap for the firm is 14.3%
The median gender pay gap for the firm is 12.4%
The mean gender bonus gap for the firm is 33.6%
The median gender bonus gap for the firm is 0%

• 

The proportion of male employees in the firm receiving a 
bonus is 20.1% and the proportion of female employees 
receiving a bonus is 16.3%.

• 

Pay quartiles by gender:

Band

Males

Females

Lower quartile

47.9%

52.1%

Middle-lower
quartile

Middle-upper
quartile

44.2%

55.8%

54.5%

45.5%

Upper quartile

63.0%

37.0%

2

What are the underlying causes of the firm’s 
Gender pay gap?

Under the law, men and women must receive equal 
pay for:

The same or broadly similar work;

• 
•  Work rated as equivalent under a job 

evaluation scheme; or

•  Work of equal value.

MacIntyre Hudson LLP is committed to the principle 
of equal opportunities and equal treatment of 
all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion 
or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy 
of paying employees equally for the same or 
equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any 
other characteristic set out above). As such, it:

• 

• 

Provides diversity and equal opportunities 
training for all staff members as part of the 
induction process; and
Evaluates job roles and pay grades as 
necessary to ensure a fair structure.

MacIntyre Hudson LLP is therefore confident that 
its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men 
and women differently for the same or equivalent 
work. 
Our gender pay gap is the result of the roles 
in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the salaries that these roles 
attract.

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more 
likely than women to be in senior roles (especially 
very senior roles at the top of organisations), while 
women are more likely than men to be in front-
line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In 
addition, men are more likely to be in technical 
roles, which attract higher rates of pay than other 
roles at similar levels of seniority. 

Women are also more likely than men to have had 
breaks from work that have affected their career 
progression, for example to bring up children. They 
are also more likely to work part time, and many of 
the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-
time basis are relatively low paid. 

3

Whilst we are not accepting of the patterns seen across the UK 
economy, elements of this are reflected in our workforce. Over 
the next two years, we have a strong initiative in place to ensure 
this is not the case moving forward.

Our current uneven gender distribution can be seen in the 
info-graphic depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows the 
firm’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on 
hourly pay rates, with the lower quartile including the lowest- 
paid 25% of employees and upper quartile covering the
highest-paid 25%. In order for there to be no gender pay gap, 
there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each 
quartile. However, within the firm, 52.1% of the employees in 
the lower quartile are women and 47.9% are men. While the 
percentage of men drops slightly to 44.2% in the middle-lower 
quartile, it increases throughout the remaining two upper
quartiles, from 54.5% in middle-upper to 63% in the upper 
quartile.

Pay quartiles by gender

63%

37%

54.5%

45.5%

44.2%

55.8%

47.9%

52.1%

Upper
quartile 

Middle-upper 
quartile

Middle-lower
quartile 

Lower
quartile

4

Key= male & female

33.6%

The mean gender

bonus gap

0%

The median gender

bonus gap

The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender bonus gap for MacIntyre Hudson are relatively small at 33.6% and 0%. The 
mean gap figure is affected by a small number of outliers, which is corrected by the median gap, which is generally accepted as 
a better statistical tool.

The proportion of 
male employees 
receiving a bonus

20.1%

16.3%

The proportion of 
female employees 
receiving a bonus

The proportion of men in the firm who received a bonus in the 12 months up to 5 April 2017 was 20.1%, while for women this 
was 16.3%. This reflects the higher proportion of men in the management roles that, under our current policy, are eligible for a
performance bonus.

5

How does MacIntyre Hudson LLP’s gender pay gap 
compare with other organisations?

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say that MacIntyre Hudson LLP’s gap 
compares favourably with that of other organisations, including those within our industry.

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual 
Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%, while in the legal and accounting activities sector it is 25.7%. At 14.3%, 
MacIntyre Hudson LLP’s mean gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than both of the above.

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 ONS ASHE figures) is 18.4%, while in the legal 
and accounting activities sector it is 24.2%. At 12.4%, MacIntyre Hudson LLP’s median gender pay gap is, also significantly lower 
than both of the above.

MacIntyre 
Hudson LLP

2017 ONS ASHE 
All employees

Mean gender
pay gap

Median gender
pay gap

14.3%

17.4%

12.4%

18.4%

2017 ONS ASHE

Legal and
accounting
activities 

25.7%

24.2%

6

What is the firm doing to address the gender 
pay gap?

MHA MacIntyre Hudson is taking its responsibilities in 
reducing the gender pay gap seriously and has already 
implemented measures to address this such as:

adoption and shared parental leave some of which 
attract enhanced payment above the statutory 
minimum

• 

• 

Policies – the firm has well established policies in 
place on diversity and equal opportunities, these 
form a backbone of induction training for all new 
employees to ensure everyone understands the 
concepts and also the importance of diversity and 
equality for the firm

Flexible working - the firm prides itself on offering 
and promoting healthy work life balance and 
implements flexible working arrangements where 
possible if requested. A significant percentage of 
employees work on a flexible or part-time basis either 
temporarily or on a permanent basis

• 

Family friendly policies – the firm offers a full suite of 
family friendly leave including maternity, paternity, 

• 

Sabbatical Leave – the firm offer the option for staff 
to take sabbatical leave for up to one year with a 
guaranteed position to return to after the agreed 
time-frame.

We have also started a separate project on promoting 
diversity in all aspects including gender. We recognise 
the strengths differences can bring and we are actively 
working on this as a firm and as part of the wider project 
within the Baker Tilly International network. We are going 
to focus our efforts on our ways of working to rebalance 
the gender mix at all levels. Our ultimate aim is to 
empower all individuals to build a successful career within 
the firm no matter what background they come from or 
what gender they are. 

7

None of the initiatives described will, 
of itself, remove the gender pay gap 
- and it may be several years before 
some have any impact at all. In the 
meantime, the firm is committed to 
reporting on an annual basis on what 
it is doing to reduce the gender pay 
gap and the progress that it is making.

I, Rakesh Shaunak, Managing Partner 
of MacIntyre Hudson LLP, confirm that 
the information in this statement is 
accurate.

Signed: 

Date: 17/01/2018

8

Follow us

@MHupdates

MHA MacIntyre Hudson

Get in touch

If you would like further information please contact us:

+ 44 (0)20 7429 4100

webenquiries@mhllp.co.uk

www.macintyrehudson.co.uk

A Member ofMHA

 

MHA MacIntyre Hudson is the trading name of MacIntyre Hudson LLP, a limited liability partnership, registered in England with registered number OC312313. A list of partners’ names is open for inspection at its registered office, 201 Silbury 
Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 1LZ. Registered to carry on audit work in the United Kingdom and regulated for a range of investment business activities by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. An independent member 
of MHA, a national association of UK accountancy firms. The term ‘partner’ or ‘partners’ indicates that the person (or persons) in question is (or are) a member(s) of MacIntyre Hudson LLP or an employee or consultant of its affiliated businesses 
with equivalent standing and qualifications. Partners and directors acting as administrators or administrative receivers contract as agents and without personal liability. Further information and links to the respective regulators and appointed 
individuals’ qualifications can be found via our website www.macintyrehudson.co.uk/legal-dislaimer

MHA MacIntyre Hudson is an independent member of Baker Tilly International. Baker Tilly International Limited is an English company. Baker Tilly International provides no professional services to clients. Each member firm is a separate and 
independent legal entity and each describes itself as such. MHA MacIntyre Hudson is not Baker Tilly International’s agent and does not have the authority to bind Baker Tilly International or act on Baker Tilly International’s behalf. None of Baker 
Tilly International, MHA MacIntyre Hudson, nor any of the other member firms of Baker Tilly International has any liability for each other’s acts or omissions. Arrandco Investments Limited is the registered owner of the UK trade mark for Baker Tilly 
and its associated logo.

9

