TED WRAGG MULTI-ACADEMY TRUST – STATUTORY GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 

1.  This Report contains the Ted Wragg Multi-Academy Trust’s standard disclosure of the 

gender pay gap for the multi-academy trust.   

2.  All companies with 250 or more employees are now required to publish their gender pay 

gap under new legislation that came into force in April 2017. Employers have to publish the 
gap in pay between men and women on both a median basis (pay per hour based on the 
person ‘in the middle’ of the distribution of pay) and a mean basis (average hourly salary).  
In addition, employers are required to disclose the distribution of gender by pay quartile – in 
other words splitting the workforce into four groups based on their pay, and showing the 
proportion of men and women in each group.  Employers are also required to disclose 
percentages of staff receiving bonuses by gender and the gender gap on bonuses. 

3.  The TWMAT welcomes and supports gender pay gap reporting, albeit not immune to 

broader societal issues affecting women in the workforce. 

4.  This report provides both the statutory disclosures required, as well as further context 

around gender pay at the Trust.   

CONTEXT 

5.  The gender pay gap is the difference between the hourly rate of pay of male employees and 

female employees (as set out in the regulations), expressed as a percentage of the hourly 
pay rate of the male employees. The gender pay gap is reported on both a mean (average) 
and median (mid-point on a distribution) basis. 

6.  Nationally, the gender pay gap is 18.4% (Office of National Statistics 2017).  Nationally, one 
of the main reasons for the gender pay gap is more men are likely to hold senior positions.  
This is not the case with the Trust which has a slightly higher proportion of women in the 
upper quartile of pay.  

7.  Differentials in gender pay across the workforce are not the same as ensuring equal pay.  UK 

law has, since the 1970s, prohibited paying different amounts to men and women who are 
doing ‘like work’, ‘work of equal value’ or ‘work rated as equivalent’ unless there is a 
‘genuine material factor’, for the difference.     

GENDER AT THE TED WRAGG MULTI-ACADEMY TRUST (SNAPSHOT AT 31/3/17) 

8.  Overall the Trust has a 68% female and 32% male workforce.  The percentage of female 

members of staff is higher at the lower grades of the organisation, with increasing 
percentages of men at higher grades.  Within the lowest quartile of our pay grades, the Trust 
has a 78% female / 22% male mix.  As we move to the highest quartile, this mix moves to 
55% female / 45% male. 

9.  The overall gender pay gap as at 31 March 2017 is 29.6% on a median basis, compared to 

the UK median, which is reported by the Office of National Statistics as 18.4%.   

10. The fact that there are more women in Teaching and support roles (lower paid quartiles) is 

the major driver of the overall pay gap.  Our analysis shows that almost all the pay 
differential is driven by this factor, with residual pay differences being minimal (0.4%).  Such 
structural demographics are recognised by the UK government as being the single most 
significant factor in the overall gender pay gap.   

STATUTORY DISCLOSURES 

11. The tables below show the overall median and mean gender pay gap and other data 

required by statute, based on the hourly rates of pay to those employed on the snapshot 
day of 31 March 2017.   

12. As explained above, the analysis of our gender pay gap data shows that almost the entirety 

of the pay gap has arisen because we have a relatively higher proportion of women in 
support roles. 

Difference in mean and median hourly rate of pay 

 

Difference in the mean hourly 
pay 

Difference in the median 
hourly pay 

Pay gap. % difference male to 
female 

17.4% 

 

Difference in mean and median bonus pay 

29.6% 

 

Pay gap. % difference male to 
female 

 

Difference in the mean bonus 
pay 

Difference in the median 
bonus pay 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Proportion of male and female employees who were paid bonus pay 

 

Proportion receiving a bonus 

Male employees (% paid a bonus compared to 
all male employees) 

Not applicable 

Female employees (% paid a bonus compared 
to all female employees) 

Not applicable 

Proportion of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands 

 

Quartile 1. 

Lower 

Quartile 2. 

Quartile 3. 

Lower 
middle 

Upper 
middle 

Quartile 4. 

Upper 

Male (% males to all employees 
in each quartile) 

22.2% 

23.4% 

35.9% 

45.3% 

Female (% females to all 
employees in each quartile) 

77.8% 

76.6% 

64.1% 

54.7% 

Average pay gap – difference in 
pay (female to male) 

-£0.22 

-£0.07 

£0.52 

£0.03 

 

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE 

13. The Trust has considered its data on gender and pay rates, noting that the reasons for pay 

differentials are almost entirely due to types of occupation. The Trust are pleased that there 
is a minimal gender gap in posts recognised within the highest quartiles, which 
demonstrates that there is equality in opportunity in progression for both genders in this 
organisation.  However, the Trust also recognise that there are significantly higher 
proportions of women working in support roles (within the lower quartiles).  This may be as 
a consequence of eg. having and caring for children which can change what is wanted from a 
job – (nb. see data from the Office from National Statistics, which confirms this as an issue).  
The Trust seeks to maximise opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender, through 
inclusive flexible working policy and recruitment processes which apply at all organisational 
levels. It is pleasing that there are no issues around equal pay, with men and women within 
each quartile earning within pence of each other.  Further, increases to the Living Wage will 
narrow pay differentials in time.   

14. Whilst understanding that these issues face all companies and the education sector in 

particular, the Trust recognises its responsibilities and will continue to: 

  Encourage male employees to apply for support roles, and ensure they are not 

discouraged in their applications. 

  Ensure all job roles are advertised to eliminate any potential for gender bias and to 

provide opportunities for female employees to progress through the grades. 

 

 

Audit and Resources Committee 
22 January 2018 

 

Background papers 

http://www.acas.org.uk/index.aspx?articleid=5768 
https://visual.ons.gov.uk/the-gender-pay-gap-what-is-it-and-what-affects-it/ 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/bu
lletins/annualsurveyofhoursandearnings/2017provisionaland2016revisedresults 

 

