Gender Pay Gap report

The new gender pay gap reporting legislation requires UK firms with more than 250 employees to publish their gender pay on an 
annual basis. Brooks Macdonald Group only has one employing entity with over 250 employees but has chosen to publish gender pay 
information for all 433 UK employees to provide transparency across the business.

At Brooks Macdonald we welcome the introduction of legislation around gender pay gap reporting. 

Although our data is reflective of a greater number of men in senior positions within the firm, we are acutely aware of the trends 
shown and the clear need to address gender diversity across the Group. We believe that the opportunity to report on an ongoing 
basis and the focus this brings will support the work we have recently initiated to effect meaningful change in our business.

At Brooks Macdonald we are confident that we do not have an equal pay issue and our people are rewarded equally for the same 
role, regardless of gender. We do however recognise that we have unacceptably low levels of gender diversity in many of our 
higher paid and senior roles.

I am very aware of the challenges in attracting more women into our industry, retaining them at critical points and supporting their 
career progression.  Since my appointment in April 2017, we have launched a number of initiatives to address this, some of which 
are mentioned in this report. Importantly, we are signing up to the Women in Finance Charter and will agree targets to improve the 
representation of women at senior levels across the Group.

We have launched a dedicated diversity programme, we are improving our approach to recruitment and we are developing our 
approach to flexible working to benefit all staff. This reflects the principles we are guided by as a business, as well as the value that 
we place on diversity more broadly.

We will use the opportunities that the gender pay reporting requirements bring to support our actions to deliver sustainable 
changes in diversity. 

Caroline Connellan 
Group Chief Executive

Workforce gender split

Gender Pay Gap

57.7%

42.3%

Gender pay gap
Bonus gap

Mean
38.2%
79.1%

Median
42.0%
68.1%

Percentage of employees 

receiving a bonus

Men
82.8%

Women
73.2%

Lowest quartile  

of earners

Lower middle 

quartile

Upper middle  

quartile

33.3%

66.7%

Men

Women

47.6%

52.4%

64.8%

35.2%

Top  
quartile

88.7%

11.3%

Further details

We employ considerably more men than women, particularly in our senior roles. In our lower paid roles, our gender balance is 
skewed towards females, with fewer females towards the upper end of our pay quartiles.

In some key client facing roles representation of women is low.  These are also the roles that have a larger bias towards bonus over 
salary, which is a significant contributory factor towards our bonus pay gap.

At 38.2%, we accept that our mean gender pay gap is too wide and embrace the need to take action. As well as signing up to the 
Women in Finance Charter, we have launched a number of initiatives to improve diversity as well as benefitting all our employees, 
including:

•  Establishing a dedicated diversity programme, led by a member of our Executive Team;

• 

 Developing our approach to flexible working, giving greater opportunity to women and men to work in a way that supports 
their needs and personal circumstances;

•  Ensuring our career development approach creates and supports diversity at all levels across the Group;

• 

 Reviewing our approach to recruitment to attract a diverse range of applicants and building diversity into our shortlisting 
criteria, whilst ensuring we appoint the best person for the role;

•  Rolling out unconscious bias training, beginning with our senior leaders;

•  Working with Investment 2020 to develop a new apprenticeship scheme with a focus on attracting a diverse range of 

candidates;

• 

 Reviewing our policies and employee benefits to support a diverse workforce and provide a rewarding work environment for 
all.

These initiatives are sponsored by our Executive Team and involve senior business leads from across our organisation.

