2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

At Phillips 66 Limited we are committed to employing a diverse workforce that can deliver exceptional performance on a sustainable basis. We 
ensure all voices are valued, respected and supported at every level of our decision-making and this includes making sure everybody has the same 
opportunities for recognition, reward and career development.
Pay
Women’s Hourly Rate is:

Pay Quartiles
Across our UK businesses and locations our overall male to female ratio as at 
the 5th April 2017 was 85% male to 15% female.

Hourly Pay

£

1.4% Lower (Mean)
0.7% Higher (Median)

The data indicates that there was no discernible pay gap between that of 
men and women working across our UK organisation as at the 5th April 2017.
Note: Data includes all UK paid employees, administered under UK pay policies and programs, whether 
working in the UK or abroad on assignment. Employees working in the UK on foreign pay policies and 
paid via foreign payrolls are not included.

Bonus
Women’s Bonus Value is:

Bonus Paid

16.2% Lower (Mean)     3.3% Lower (Median)

Top

Quartile

18%

82%

Upper Middle

Quartile

12%

Lower Middle

Quartile

8%

88%

92%

Lower
Quartile

21%

79%

100%
Women

98.2%
Men

Proportion of colleagues awarded a bonus, up to 5th April 2017 

Why do we have a gender bonus gap?
As well as our ‘all employee’ bonus program and special recognition voucher program, the bonus figures also include our higher value trader bonus and equity 
programs where we had a higher proportion of males than females employed during the relevant period.
Notes: During the relevant Period: (i) two of our top three UK executive roles were held by females but are not included in the figures as they were not paid on the UK sterling payroll; (ii) The % of males receiving a bonus was less than 100% as a small 
number of male employees joined the organisation after 1st Jan 2017 and were not eligible for the 2016 bonus program; (iii) The majority of employees working part-time were female and received a pro-rata bonus. As at 5th April 2017 the regulations 
do not allow for adjustment to be made to account for part-time working, therefore this has the effect of increasing the average and median gap between the bonuses of males and females.

Declaration on behalf of Phillips 66 Limited
As Directors of Phillips 66 Limited, we confirm that the information and data provided in this report is accurate
and in line with mandatory requirements.

Darren Cunningham
Lead Executive UK & General Manager Humber Refinery

Kim Head
Global Trading Lead, Crude

Mary Wolf
Managing Director, UK Marketing

