 
 
 
 
 
 

 
UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
AGCO Limited 

The UK Government has introduced a requirement on all employers to publish their gender pay gap by  1st April 2018. 
AGCO is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work where all our employees can be themselves, feel 
they  are  able  to  contribute  their  views  and  that  those  will  be  valued.    This  is  fundamental  to  creating  a  higher 
performing Company for the future, one that better reflects and serves our customers and where we work around the 
world.    We  take  this  commitment  very  seriously  and  already  have  initiatives  underway  and more  planned  to make  it 
happen. 
 
 

 

 
 

Pay difference between men and women:  
AGCO Limited employees in the UK 
at 5th April 2017 
 
The gender pay gap is an average overall between men and 
women.  It is not  the same as equal pay which  looks at the 
individual  salary  level  and  is  about  ensuring  that  men  and 
women are paid the same for carrying out the same work, or 
work of equal value. 
 
The  diagram  below  shows  AGCO  Limited’s  gender  pay  gap.  
This  is  a  snapshot  of  the  difference  between  the  average 
hourly  pay 
levels  of  all  women  compared  to  men, 
irrespective of their role or level in the Company, expressed 
as a percentage of men’s average pay. The hourly pay figure 
used to calculate the difference includes all items specified in 
the new Regulations, such as allowances and shift pay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

UK’s National Gender Pay Gap  
Source: Office of National Statistics 2016 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 
AGCO Limited employees in the UK 

Median Gender Pay Gap 
AGCO Limited employees in the UK 

31.5% 

30.4% 

18.1% 

 
Our  figures  show  that  the  median  average  pay  of  all  our 
women  in  the  UK  is  31.5%  lower  than  that  for  all  our  men. 
This gap is attributed to the fact that more male colleagues 
are working in more senior, higher paid roles and we employ 
proportionately  more  men  than  women  (66%  and  34% 
respectively).  
 
Another variable in determining the gender pay gap is sector.  
Analysis of the first  570 companies to report  on gender pay 
demonstrated  that  construction,  IT,  technical  and  financial 
services  reported  the  largest  gaps  (Source:  CIPD  January 
2018).    Our  industry,  agricultural  machinery  manufacturing 
and the largest functions based in the UK (Finance, IT, Sales 
and Technical Service), contribute significantly to our gender 
pay  gap. 
  Our  sector  and  these  departments  have 
traditionally attracted more men than women.  For example 
more  men  study  Agricultural  Engineering  than  women 
resulting in  more  men recruited into product specific teams 
historically.   

 

Pay quartiles across AGCO Limited UK employees 
at 5th April 2017 

KEY:  Male   Female 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The  charts  above  show  the  gender  distribution  across  AGCO 
Limited  in  the  UK  in  four  equally  sized  hourly  pay  quartiles  as 
defined by the new UK Government Regulations.   Each quartile 
contains 115 employees.  
 
The  distribution  shows  there  are  more  men  in  higher  paid 
positions  in  the  upper  quartile  (86.1%)  compared  with  more 
women in the lower paid positions in the lower quartile (70%).  
 
AGCO  uses  structured  grading  methodology  to  determine  level 
of roles and salary within the Company  to promote consistency 
in  pay  between  men  and  women  on  the  same  grade  or  doing 
equal  work.      Pay  is  determined  against  the  salary  band  and 
external  market  for  the  role,  of  which  gender 
is  not  a 
consideration.  When  we  look  at  pay  using  our  more  defined 
grading methodology to compare like for like,  men and women 
are paid similarly.  
 
 
 
 

AGCO Limited employees in the UK 
In 12 months preceding 5th April 2017 
 

 

  Bonus pay difference between men and women 

61.4% 
MEAN 
MEDIAN                 63.8% 
 
The  data  shows  that  women  receive  a  bonus  63.8%  less  than 
men. This is a reflection of the fact that we employ 86.1% of men 
in the upper quartile pay band. Men in this band earn more and 
have a higher targeted bonus earning opportunity which in turn 
results in a larger bonus pay gap. 
 
This information supports us in proactively managing our female 
talent pipeline. 
 

 
Proportion of AGCO Limited UK employees receiving a 
bonus 
In 12 months preceding 5th April 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Every employee has a part to play in contributing to AGCO’s 
success  and  we  believe  it  is  important  that  everyone  is 
rewarded  fairly  for  the  performance  of  our  business.    The 
proportion  of  men  and  women  that  received  a  bonus  was 
99% for both groups.    
 
How we’re continuing to take action  
 
In April 2017, our total female workforce in the UK was 34%.  We would like this to be higher and along with other companies in our 
sector, we’re actively working to particularly increase the number of women at more senior levels in our Company.  AGCO aspires to 
achieve a goal of 20% women in global leadership by 2020.   
 
In the year to 5th April 2017, the proportion of women recruited into roles in the UK increased to 52% and this trend continued to 
the end of 2017.  Implementation of our “Recruitment Process Optimisation” project is due to commence on 1st April 2018 and this 
initiative will enable us to provide a broader and more diverse slate of candidates to Hiring Managers.  Broader talent management 
conversations and training helps our Line Managers understand unconscious bias and  then manage and challenge how this might 
impact existing employees or potential recruits.    
 
AGCO’s annual talent review and succession planning process commences in April 2018 and a key priority again this year will be to 
ensure all female emerging talent have robust development plans in place.  
 
In addition, we are looking at how we can enhance our Maternity Policy and improve existing flexible working practices in the UK to 
offer  employees  greater  flexibility  (home  working,  job  sharing  and  part  time  opportunities).    Management  continues  to  be 
encouraged to focus on outcomes and delivery of results rather than time spent in the office.   

 
In  May  2011,  AGCO  launched  a  Global  Women’s  Network (AGWN).    This  is  a  business  advisory  group  that 
develops, promotes and advocates leadership of women as growers of profitability, collaboration and a diverse 
culture  at  AGCO.   Studies  have  proven  that companies  with  more  women  in  leadership  perform  better.  We 
have  a  team  of  volunteers  in  the  UK  that  give  freely  their  time,  talents  and  energy  to  develop  quality  local 
AGWN activities.   
 

 

Diversity promotes creativity and innovation, two critical components to AGCO’s success around the globe.  AGCO’s 
core values of Team Spirit, Respect, Accountability, Integrity and Transparency, foster inclusion and diversity.  This is 
good for our people and good for our business.  
 
Underpinning  all  our  actions  is  our  Equality  and  Diversity  Policy  which  sets  out  our  commitment  to  helping  all 
employees feel confident to share their views and articulate how they add value to the business. 
 
 
We confirm the data reported is accurate:  
 
 
 
 
Declan Hayden  
Vice President Global Sales & Operations Planning 
AGCO Limited Director  

Yvonne McDermott 
Senior Manager HR UK & Ireland & EME Shared Service Centre 
 

 

 

