 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Larking  Gowen  is  an  Accountancy  and  business  advisory  partnership  operating  in  the  private  sector.    We  are  an 
ICAEW accredited  Training  Firm and consistently  each year recruit approximately 20 trainees on to Apprenticeships 
and Graduate training schemes, lasting between 2 and 5 years.   

Salaries  are  based  on  a  pay  framework  and  salary  increases  are  based  on  exam  progression  and  professional 
development.    The  cumulative  effect  of  this  is  that  nearly  half  of  our  workforce  are  trainees  or  apprentices.    Our 
gender split is 42% male, 58% female. 

We  are  passionate  about  fairness,  equality  and  inclusion  and  are  committed  to  understanding  the  reasons  for  our 
gender  pay  gap  and  closing  it.    We  aim  to  achieve  gender  representation  across  all  of  our  job  levels  that  is 
proportionate and representative of our employee make-up.  

This  report  relates  to  the  data  for  the  snapshot  date  of  5th  April  2017,  calculated  and  set  out  according  to  the 
standard methodologies set out in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.   

Pay and Bonus Gap 

The difference between men and women, the pay gap 

 

Hourly fixed pay 

Bonus* 

Mean 

12.6% 

36.4% 

Median 

11.5% 

12.5% 

*  We  don’t  currently  operate  a  bonus  scheme.    Bonus  for  the  purposes  of  this  report  refers  to  our  Recommend  a 
Friend Recruitment Referral Scheme and Reward for Referral (client referral) Schemes, and the Suggestion Schemes.  
These schemes are voluntary schemes open to all employees and the resulting payments/vouchers are not related to 
salary.    The  bonus  figures  for  this  year  include  a  one-off  bonus  paid  to  a  small  number  of  employees  to  facilitate 
contractual change and was not relative to an individual’s salary. 

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus in the twelve months to 5th April 2017 

Male 

19% 

Female 

18.9% 

 

P a g e  | 1 

 

 

The  pattern  from  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole  is  reflected  in  the  make-up  of  our  workforce.    The  majority  of  non-
professional roles are within support services, which is largely comprised of non-technical roles, and the majority of 
employees in these roles are women.   

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. In order for there to be no gender pay gap, 
there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each  quartile. However, 62.2% of our employees in the 
lower  quartile  are  women  and  37.8%  men.  The  percentage  of  male  employees  throughout  the  remaining  quartiles 
remains fairly consistent with this but the gap narrows in the upper quartile. 

We are therefore confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the 
same or equivalent work. 

Our aim is to address gender imbalance and gender representation at all levels of our business.  We will achieve this 
by identifying any barriers to gender equality to ensure a level playing field for men and women, particularly in areas 
of recruitment, promotion, working arrangements, support for family and caring responsibilities and retention. 

Larking Gowen is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and 
the progress that it is making. 

Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the firm’s intranet. 

I confirm that the data reported is accurate. 

 

J. D. Woolston 
Managing Partner 
28th February 2018 

P a g e  | 2 

37.840.537.854.862.259.562.245.2010203040506070LowerQuartileLower MiddleQuartileUpper MiddleQuartileUpperQuartile% Females% Males