GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT | 2017

Introducing Fabienne Viala |  Chairman, Bouygues UK

I am proud of our talented and 
dedicated workforce here at  
Bouygues UK.  However, like many 
other companies in the construction 
and property industry, we have far 
more men than women working in our 
business.  
Currently, 71% of our workforce is male 
and we have significantly more men 
than women in the higher paid senior 
roles.  I am personally committed 
to changing this and improving the 
gender balance within Bouygues UK.

Feedback from businesses and 
academic research suggests that firms 
with diverse workforces and executive 
boards perform significantly better 
than those with little or no diversity, 
as this provides a more rigorous and 
challenging framework for critical 
decision making. 
The more diverse our workforce across 
all aspects of the business, the better 
we will be able to understand our 
diverse community of stakeholders and 
effectively deliver our projects for both 
our clients and the end-users. 

It is clear that a better gender balance 
and increased diversity at all levels 
of our business are key factors in our 
future success, and there is more that 
we can do to increase diversity in all its 
forms, including gender.  
However, change, particularly 
meaningful change, takes time to 
effect.  This is our first gender pay gap 
report and in addition to explaining our 
statistics, it shows some of the ways 
in which we are working to close the 
gender pay gap within our business. 

Fabienne Viala, Chairman, Bouygues UK

From April 2017, all UK 
organisations which employ 
over 250 people are required 
to report annually on their 
gender pay gap. 

The gender pay gap is not 
the same as equal pay, which 
makes it illegal to pay men and 
women differently for equal 
work.

The gender pay gap is 
defined as the difference in 
average pay between all men 
and women in a workforce, 
regardless of their role or 
seniority. 

Understanding Bouygues UK Gender Pay Gap figures

As at 5th April 2017 | All figures are inclusive of all: Bouygues UK and Thomas Vale employees

Is the Gender Pay 
Gap the same as 
equal pay? Simply 
put, the answer is no, 
as explained below.

Gender Pay Gap is the 
difference in average hourly 
rates of pay between men 
and women, irrespective of 
their job or their position.

Female

Male

Equal pay relates to what 
women and men are paid  
for the same work. 

Gender pay gap
31.69% (Mean)

Female

Male

40.98% (Median)
Female

Male

Of 1,200 employees 
at Bouygues UK as at 5th April 2017

  29% 
  women

 71% men

Pay quartiles

45.5% 

men

54.5% 
women

30.6% 
women

14.5% 
women

11.6% 
women

69.4%

men

85.5% 

men

88.4% 

men

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

Gender bonus gap

Who received a bonus

47.82% (Mean)

Female

Male

50.00% lower (Median)
Female

Male

8.37% of women

18.55% of men

The Gender Pay Gap bonus reporting period concerns April 
2016 to April 2017. The February 2017 review was deferred 
until June 2017 hence there were few bonuses paid in the 
reporting period. This explains why the percentage of staff 
awarded a bonus is so low.

What is the difference between mean and median? 
The mean is what most people would call the average - add up all the numbers and then divide by total number of numbers. 
The median is the middle value in the list of numbers - arrange all of your numbers in numerical order, smallest to largest, and find the number in the middle of the list.

How are quartiles calculated?
Arrange all of your numbers in numerical order, smallest to largest, and find the number in the middle of the list so that you have two halves (as you would to find the median above).  
The lower quartile divides the bottom half of the data into two halves, and the upper quartile also divides the upper half of the data into two halves.

Improving Bouygues UK’s future activities

Bouygues UK has a mean gender pay gap of 31.69% 
and our mean gender bonus gap is 47.82%: both 
are due to having an imbalance of male and female 
colleagues at different levels across our organisation.  
Additionally, due to a challenging period between 
2016 and 2017 very few bonuses were paid during 
this time. Those that were, tended to be project 
related and paid to our delivery teams who are 
overwhelming male.  Although we are making 
progress, we still have fewer women in more senior 

positions and operational roles, as well as a higher 
proportion of women relative to men in more junior 
and administrative roles.  
Addressing our gender pay gap and the wider issue of 
diversity within our business is no easy task.  
In the UK, of all graduates in science, technology, 
engineering and mathematics (STEM) in 2017 only 
24% were female, and in technology and engineering 
in particular, this figure is just 14%. This is not 
surprising given that at the age of 16, just 35% of 

girls choose mathematics, physics, computing or a 
vocational qualification, compared to 94% of boys*.
To improve these figures and therefore increase the 
number of women who may consider a career within 
this diverse and dynamic industry, we all need to be 
engaging with future generations at a much earlier 
stage – university is too late, these conversations 
need to start at primary school.
Within our business, we need to look at every 
aspect of our employees’ experience. We need to 
continue to develop a culture of inclusivity which 
supports our female colleagues throughout their 
career, from gender-neutral recruitment processes 
to flexible working practices and career development 
plans which meet the needs of a diverse workforce. 
An environment where our female staff are given 
the same opportunities to flourish as their male 
counterparts is vital.  
Creating a culture which understands the benefits 
of diversity in the workplace and actively promotes 
it doesn’t just happen; it takes a clear strategy and 
buy-in right from the top before it can effectively be 
implemented across an organisation and become part 
of a company’s normal working practice.  
The challenge of closing the gender pay gap 
is considerable but the benefits to individuals, 
organisations and our industry are not in doubt.  
It will take effort and energy but Bouygues UK is 
committed to a more diverse future.

* Figures taken from the Women in Science and Engineering’s (WISE) Core STEM 
Graduates 2017 research released on 1st February 2018 and The WISE STEM 
Education Pipeline 2017 research released on 23rd November 2017.

Improving Bouygues UK’s future activities

Bouygues UK is committed to 
improving gender parity over 
the long term and ensuring we 
have a more diverse business, 
where all our colleagues 
can thrive and achieve their 
potential.  

We are already making progress in a 
variety of ways:
 » Our CSR teams are raising awareness of 
the wide career opportunities available 
in construction, to primary, secondary 
and higher education students.

 » We have an established partnership 
with the Women in Property Student 
Awards which recognise and promote 
the contribution of the female student 
population to the built environment, 
and encourage more women into the 
property and construction industries.

 » We are working to ensure that our 

recruitment process is gender neutral.  

 

 » In 2017 over 50% of our graduate 

scheme intake were women.

 » We have an active women’s network, 

WeLink, created for female employees 
of the Bouygues Construction businesses 
in the UK which provides a forum for 
exchange and support, explores the 
benefits of gender diversity for the 
business and its people.

 » We regularly review our policies to 
ensure that they are as attractive 
and flexible as possible – including 
maternity, paternity and flexible 
working.

Bouygues UK
Becket House

1 Lambeth Palace Road

London, SE1 7EU

Tel. +44 20 7401 0020

www.bouygues-uk.com

