Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Introduction

Cordant People Limited is a multi-sector recruitment business.  The gender 
pay gap data analysed and covered within this report relates to our Cordant 
People and Cordant Technical & Engineering recruitment brands, plus a large 
number of central support staff that support these and other brands across 
the Cordant Group who are paid via Cordant People Limited. 

We welcome the opportunity to publish our gender pay gap report, which has 
been taken from the pay details of the 4,793colleagues we paid in the pay 
period within which the 5th April 2017 fell (referred to under the relevant 
regulations as the “snapshot date”), of which 33.7% were female, and 66.7% 
were male.  In the interests of transparency, our report also provides a 
separate gender pay gap analysis for our 366 salaried colleagues as over 93% 
of the staff we paid in the relevant pay period were temporary colleagues 
whose pay rates are set by the clients they work for. 

We have a greater proportion of male colleagues as as the data set includes 
the pay data for 4,427 of our temporary colleagues, who predominantly work 
within the blue collar sector where pay rates are typically at or towards the 
national minimum / living wage, and male workers are more prevalent.  The 
pay rates paid to our temporary colleagues are set by our clients which makes 
effecting change in our future gender pay gap data much more challenging.

Notwithstanding this, as part of our transition to becoming a social enterprise, 
we are developing a good job strategy which will focus on how we can create 
and maximise a positive social impact.  As we develop these strategies and 
integrate them into our future business plans, we will also take into account 
our gender pay gap data, ensuring diversity and inclusion remains a key focus 
area for the future. 

I confirm the information and data reported within this report and submitted 
via the Government Equalities Office gender pay gap reporting service is 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Ken Steers
Group Human Resources Director

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Understanding our gender pay gap report

How is the gender pay gap measured?
There are four key measures:

● Mean hourly pay and bonus pay gap
● Median hourly pay and bonus pay gap
●

Proportion of males / females that received a bonus in the 12 month 
period ending on the snapshot date
Proportion of males / females in each quartile pay band

●

How is the mean hourly pay gap calculated?
The mean pay gap is expressed as a percentage and shows the difference in 
the average hourly rate of pay between male and female colleagues.  This is 
calculated by adding up the hourly rates of pay for all females, and dividing 
this by the number of females, and doing the same calculation for men. The 
percentage is then calculated by taking the average hourly rate for females 
from the average hourly rate for males, and multiplying the result by 100.

How is the median hourly pay gap calculated?
Firstly, you rank all female employees in order of their hourly pay rate (highest 
to lowest). You then find the hourly rate of pay belonging to the female that is 
in the middle of the list. If there is an odd number of female colleagues in the 
list the middle person will be easy to find e.g. if 105 females then use the 
hourly pay rate for the female ranked at number 53. If there is an even 
number of female colleagues, then you find the middle two and calculate the 
average hourly rate of the two e.g. if 110 employees, you calculate the average 
hourly rate of pay for the female colleagues ranked 55 and 56 in the list. 

The same calculation is undertaken for male colleagues, with the median 
hourly pay gap expressed as a percentage by taking the median hourly pay 
rate for females from the median hourly pay rate for males and multiplying by 
100.

How is the mean and median bonus pay gap calculated?
The same as the mean and median hourly pay gaps (see above), but instead 
looking at the differences in the mean and median values in relation to the 
amount  of bonus paid in the 12 month period ending on the snapshot date to 
male and female colleagues. 

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Understanding our gender pay gap report

What do the percentage pay gaps actually mean?

They effectively show how much more male colleagues earn in comparison to 
females in relation to average hourly rates of pay and average annual bonus 
payments, or vice versa. 

If the percentage gap is a positive number it means, on average,  our male 
colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of bonus payments than 
females. If the percentage gap is shown as a negative number, it means, on 
average, our female colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of 
bonus pay than their male colleagues.

Important Note

The gender pay gaps  look at comparing the pay data for all male and female 
colleagues regardless of their job role, so is not the same and should not be 
considered to show that an employer is breaching equal pay rights, which 
focus on ensuring male and female colleagues receive the same rate of pay for 
doing the same or broadly similar job role.

What are the quartile pay bands?
This is calculated by ranking all colleagues, regardless of their gender, from 
the colleague(s) with the highest hourly pay rate in the organisation to the 
colleague(s) with the lowest hourly pay rate.  

This list is then divided into four quarters, with as equal number of employees 
in each quartile as possible. 

The report then shows the proportion of males and females in each of the 
following pay quartiles:

● Upper 
● Upper middle
●
Lower middle
●
Lower  

Want to know more about gender pay gap reports?
If you would like to know more about gender pay gap reporting please visit 
www.acas.org.uk/genderpay

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Our results for 2017

The first table shows the mean and 
median hourly pay and bonus pay gap 
for all staff paid in the relevant pay 
period, which includes 4,427 (c.92%) 
hourly paid temporary colleagues, of 
which c.31% are female and 69% male, 
whose pay rates are set by the clients 
they work for. The median pay gap is 
0.0% as there were a large number of 
temporary colleagues, both male (79) 
and female (49) with an hourly pay rate 
of £8.00 p/h, which was the median 
point for both our male and female 
colleagues.  
The second table shows that female 
staff are more likely to be paid a bonus 
than males, however this is because 
males make up a greater proportion of 
our temporary workforce who are less 
likely to earn bonus.

Measure (Salaried staff)

% Gap

Mean hourly pay gap

Median hourly pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

15.1%

19.5%

49.6%

68.6%

Measure (All staff)

Mean hourly pay gap

Median hourly pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

% Gap

-4.7%

0.0%

-13.9%

-81.6%

As the data is affected by the pay data 
relating to our temporary colleagues, 
two further tables have been provided to 
show the same measures but using only 
the data for 366 salaried staff.   
Whilst Cordant People is a sales-led 
organisation that operates bonus / 
commission schemes which reward male 
and female staff equally based on the 
sales they generate, the further tables 
show a greater pay and bonus gap in 
favour of males colleagues, largely due 
to:

● More male staff earning bonus in 

the relevant period; and 

● More male staff earned larger 

bonuses, with males representing 
62% of those that earned £10k+ in 
bonus in the relevant period.

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Our results for 2017

The charts below show the percentage of male and female colleagues that are 
contained within each pay quartile band. The first set of charts show these 
measures for all staff paid in the relevant pay period, while the second set of 
charts show the same analysis but for our salaried colleagues only.
The salaried staff charts show that a greater proportion of females are paid within 
the lower two quartiles, largely for the reasons outlined previously, plus females 
are more likely to be employed within lower paid administrative / support roles.
             
          Pay Quartile Bands - All Staff                                   Pay Quartile Bands - Salaried Staff

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

Cordant People |  55-57 Sheep Street  |  Northampton  |  NN1 2NE  |  UK 

Tel: 01604 608400  |  www.cordantpeople.co.uk

Committed - Customised - Consistent - Compliant - Community focused

