Environmental Resources Management Limited
Gender Pay Gap Report
April 2018

The Gender Pay 
data in this report 
has been validated 
by Korn Ferry

Introduction 

Foreword

ERM fully supports the publication of the gender pay gap report for 
its UK-based operations. For many years, we have included gender 
balance in our global annual sustainability targets, and have been 
making steady progress in this area. We know how important it is 
that we continue this focus and to promote an inclusive culture in 
which everyone has equal access to career progression.

This report shows that Environmental Resources Management 
Limited (our UK entity) has a gender pay gap. As you will also see 
in this report, we believe that this is attributable to the fact that we 
have more males than females in senior positions, and this is 
something that we clearly need to address with more vigour. 

Developing women in leadership positions is clearly important, not 
just in the UK, but across the entire company. This was part of our 
drive to launch an initiative to build a more inclusive culture across 
the whole of ERM this past ﬁnancial year. Our ﬁve-year goal is to 
have our employees reﬂect the communities in which we work, 
based not only on gender, but also other diversity measures. We 
are conﬁdent that this will help us reinforce our effort to address 
some of the ﬁndings of this report.

Keryn James
Group Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer

Peter Rawlings
Northern Europe 
Managing Partner

Company Background 

Environmental Resources Management (ERM) is 
a leading global provider of environmental, health, 
safety, risk, social consulting and sustainability 
related services. ERM has operated in the UK 
since 1971 and employs over 300 people in the 
UK business and has been at the forefront of 
environmental and social consultancy. Our 
services to private and public sector clients offer a 
rare blend of technical and business management 
skills ranging from assessing the impacts of major 
infrastructure projects to carbon footprinting, 
climate change risk assessment and resource 
efﬁciency programmes.

Gender Pay Gap Legislation

The UK Government Equalities Ofﬁce's Gender 
Pay Gap reporting regulations came into force in 
April 2017, and employers in the UK with 250 or 
more relevant employees are now required to 
publish mandatory information concerning gender 
pay.

The regulations require employers to publish their 
overall mean (average) and median gender pay 
gaps, gender bonus gaps, gender distribution 
within salary quartiles and bonus received 
proportion.

The gender pay gap is a measure of the 
difference between men's and women's average 
earnings across an organisation irrespective of 
their role or seniority, and is expressed as a 
percentage of men's earnings. An organisation 
that has more men in senior roles and more 
women in junior roles is likely to have a gender 
pay gap.

It is important to note that gender pay is different 
to equal pay. Equal pay is deﬁned under the 
Equal Pay Act as work of equal value, or 'like' 
work which is the same or broadly similar and 
extends to the full terms and conditions of 
employment (ie: basic pay, overtime rates, 
performance related beneﬁts, hours of work, 
access to pension schemes, non-monetary terms, 
and annual leave entitlements). 

This report provides data on ERM's gender pay 
gap and describes how the Company is actively 
taking steps to address the gender pay gap 
identiﬁed.

Population

UK-based organisations of 250 or more 
employees are required to publish their gender 
pay gap. Environmental Resources Management 
Limited is the only UK employing entity that falls 
into scope and therefore no other ERM 
companies are covered in this report.  

The legislation speciﬁes a 'snapshot date’ which 
employers must use as the basis for their data 
reporting. It also provides speciﬁc deﬁnitions for 
determining which employees are relevant for 
reporting purposes (a detailed glossary of 
deﬁnitions and terms is included in the Appendix).  

th

As at the snapshot date (5  April 2017), 341 
employees fell into the scope of 'full-pay relevant 
employees' with respect to the calculation of 
hourly pay, and 358 people were in scope for 
bonus pay calculations.  The difference is due to 
17 people being excluded from the hourly pay 
calculations, as they were not considered as full-
pay relevant employees as per the legislation (for 
example those receiving reduced pay for 
absence, such as sabbatical, maternity or unpaid 
leave).

The data contained in this report has been 
reviewed and validated by a third party, Korn 
Ferry.  

1

Hourly Pay Gap

Employee Distribution

This section refers to the population included in 
the hourly pay gap calculation, referred to as full-
pay relevant employees.

The graphic below shows the overall gender 
distribution of full-pay relevant employees within 
Environmental Resources Management Limited.

Full-Pay Relevant Employee Distribution

Male

Female

Overall gender distribution is skewed towards full-
pay relevant male employees, noting that 17 
females have been excluded as they were not 
considered full-pay relevant employees as per the 
regulations (see earlier note).  

 

Hourly Pay - Gender Split by Salary 
Quartiles

In order to understand ERM’s gender pay gap, it 
is important to show the proportion of males and 
females in each pay quartile, presented in the 
charts below.

Lower pay quartile (0% - 25%)

63%

56%

Female Male

37%

44%

36%

64%

Upper pay quartile (75% - 100%)

26%

74%

The lower and lower-middle pay quartiles see a 
larger percentage of females than males. This is  
reversed in the upper-middle and upper pay 
quartiles. This is broadly comparable with what 
has been seen in other organisations and is 
attributable to the fact that males have historically 
occupied jobs in higher levels.  

While the overall gender split is 55:45, the two 
most senior levels in the Company, (Technical 
Directors and Partners) are over 80% male, and 
consequently the proportion of males in the 
uppermost salary quartile is 74%.

2

Gender Distribution of Employees by 
Grouping

Hourly Pay Gap 

The following chart highlights the distribution of 
full-pay relevant employee gender across the 
different career levels within ERM.

The chart below shows the overall hourly pay rate 
gap for Environmental Resources Management 
Limited. 

Proportion of male / female full-pay relevant 
employees by grouping

Female Male

Hourly pay gender gap

46.26%

53.74%

73.68%

26.32%

18.84%

81.16%

29.5%

27.6%

Mean (Average)

Median

Consulting roles: The proportion of females and 
males is evenly distributed in ERM’s lower career 
levels (Levels 1 to 3) and skews towards males at 
Level 4.

Partners and Technical Directors: Technical 
Director (Level 5) are almost entirely male (90%), 
with the most senior level (Partner) being two-
thirds male. 

Professional Support staff: Lower level support 
staff (Levels 1 and 2) are predominantly female, 
with higher levels (Levels 3 and 4) more evenly 
distributed. 

The overall hourly pay rate gender gap across all 
levels is 27.6% (mean) and 29.5% (median), 
based on a population of 341 relevant employees. 

It is important to note that this overall gap should 
be looked at in the context of the gender 
distribution analysis, where it is evident that we 
have signiﬁcantly more men than women in senior 
levels (Partners and Technical Directors) and 
signiﬁcantly more women in junior support roles in 
the UK business.

 

3

Bonus Pay

Employee Distribution

Percentage of Males and Females 
Receiving a Bonus

The graphic below shows the overall gender 
distribution for relevant employees within 
Environmental Resources Management Limited.

The proportion of males and females receiving a 
bonus is comparable, as shown below.

Relevant Employee Distribution

186

Male
Male

52%

172

Female
Female

48%

of Females 

received a bonus

of Males 

received a bonus

Overall, the gender distribution for bonuses is
slightly skewed towards relevant male employees
bonus pay.

4

Gender Distribution of Bonus Pay by 
Grouping 

Bonus Pay Gap

The following chart highlights the number of 
bonuses paid by gender.

The chart below shows the overall bonus pay gap. 

Female Male

25.00%

75.00%

49.67%

50.33%

73.68%

26.32%

The chart shows that the population that would 
typically receive higher bonuses due to their level 
of seniority (Partner and Technical Directors), is 
mostly populated by males. Consulting staff 
receiving bonuses are split evenly between male 
and female and within the support staff 
population, more women than men received 
bonuses.

31.3%

25.3%

Mean (Average)

Median

The bonus pay gap between males and females 
(across all levels) is 25.3% (mean) and 31.3% 
(median).

Again, this reﬂects the fact that the UK business 
has signiﬁcantly more males in senior roles and 
more women in junior support roles.

Only jobs that received a bonus have been 
included in the bonus pay gap analysis (i.e. where 
no bonuses were awarded, this was not taken into 
consideration for the purposes of calculating
average bonuses).

5

Conclusions & Commitments

The key conclusions of this report are:

 There is a pay gap (for hourly and bonus pay) 
in the UK business, and this gap is higher than 
the national average according to the 
Government gender pay gap reporting website 
as at 20  March 2018.

th

 This gap is largely driven by the gender 

distribution of employees, with more female 
staff in support roles and more males in senior 
consulting roles, including at Partner level.

ERM is committed to addressing the gender pay 
gap and will do so through its broader global 
commitment to diversity and inclusion, including 
increasing the number of women in senior 
leadership roles.

6

Taking Action: Diversity and Inclusion at ERM

In April 2017, Keryn James was appointed ERM’s 
Group CEO. 
 
Keryn subsequently appointed an Executive 
Sponsor for Diversity and Inclusion and a Global 
Inclusion Lead. They have convened our ﬁrst 
Inclusion Advisory Group. A key part of ERM's 
inclusion strategy will be to address gender 
diversity and inclusion.

Keryn James
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer

Together with the Executive 
Committee, is informed of 
decisions and provides approval

Walt Shill
Global Commercial Director

Executive Sponsor - Inclusion
Provides client focus perspective.
Informs ExCom of actions and 
seeks approval for broader 
changes

Shané Francis-Myles
Regional HR Director, EMEA

Global Inclusion Lead
Leads the activities of the 
Advisory Group and the global 
implementation of approved 
actions

Executive Committee

Executive Sponsor

Global Inclusion Lead

Advisory Group

Regions and Business Units support 

building an inclusive culture by 

demonstrating inclusive behaviours

7

Global Inclusion Action Plan

Measuring Our Success

ERM's Global Inclusion Action Plan will seek to 
engage and educate people around inclusion.  
Under the inclusion banner, the UK will roll out 
initiatives such as:

 The implementation of awareness training 

throughout the organisation for all staff 
(existing and new)

 The development and implementation of a 

Women in Leadership programme

 Development of more gender-balanced 

recruitment by examining our internal and 
external recruitment practices, along with any 
policies and practices to ascertain whether 
there are any barriers to females progressing

Supporting Women at Work

ERM UK has a ﬂexible working culture and over 
95% of formal ﬂexible working requests have 
been approved since 1  April 2016. We welcomed 
back approximately 75% of our maternity 
returners for the ﬁnancial year 1  April 2016 to 
March 2017, and 100% from 1  April 2017 to end 
of March 2018. 

st

st

st

Approximately 17% of our workforce are part-time 
and enjoy formalised ﬂexible working patterns (as 
at March 2018). Overall, ERM has a ﬂexible 
working culture, so where formal arrangements 
are not in place, there is an emphasis on 
outcomes rather than hours spent in the ofﬁce.

ERM UK's gender pay gap will continue to be 
monitored and published in coming years and the 
reduction of this gap will be dependent on our 
goal to secure more women into senior roles.  

Securing women in senior roles has been a focus 
of our sustainability agenda since 2011 and, over 
the last ﬁve years, we have seen an increase in 
women in senior roles in the UK (Partner and 
Technical Director level) grow from 14% to 19% 
(as at April 2017).

We will hold ourselves to account to ensure that:

 Our talent management process is inclusive 

and reﬂects the diversity of existing employees 
and the geographical talent markets in which 
we source candidates

 We see annual improvements in our diversity 

scores in our Employee Survey

 We will have collaborative relationships with 

external organisations which support our 
diversity and inclusion agenda (i.e. 
Universities, industry bodies, local communities 
etc)

8

Appendix

Deﬁnitions*

Snapshot date

Gender pay gap calculations are based on ﬁgures 
drawn from a speciﬁc date each year called the 
'snapshot date', which is 5  April 2017.

th

Relevant and full-pay relevant employees

 All employees employed by Environmental 

Resources Management Limited on the snapshot 
date are referred to as 'relevant employees'.

 All employees who were paid their usual full pay 

in their pay period that included the snapshot 
date are referred to as 'full-pay relevant 
employees’.

Ordinary pay

Ordinary pay includes any monetary payment such 
as:

 basic pay
 allowances (such as overseas allowance 

payments)

 pay for leave

Gross ﬁgures are used:

 before tax and any deductions for employee 

pension contributions

 after any deductions for salary sacriﬁce

Bonus Pay

Bonuses include any rewards related to:

 annual performance bonus 
 ad hoc bonuses, including referral bonuses, 

global recognition, thank you and service 
excellence awards   

*These deﬁnitions draw upon information provided on the GOV.uk gender pay 
website. For further details on the methodology used refer to 
www.gov.uk/guidance/gender-pay-gap-reporting-overview  

Hourly pay rate

 Add together each employee's ordinary pay and 

any bonus pay that was paid in the April 2017 
payroll 

 Divide the total by the 'appropriate multiplier' – 
this gives you the employee's average weekly 
pay

 The speciﬁc 'appropriate multiplier' for monthly 

pay periods is 4.35 (30.44 days divided by 7)

 Divide the result for each employee by the 

number of their weekly working hours – this gives 
you the employee's average hourly pay rate

Mean (Average)

The arithmetic mean obtained by adding several 
quantities together and dividing the sum by the 
number of quantities.

Median

50th percentile, which divides the upper 50% from 
the lower 50% of data.

Proportion of males and females receiving a 
bonus payment

Number of male relevant employees who received a 
bonus divided by the total number of male relevant 
employees. Number of female relevant employees 
who received a bonus divided by the total number of 
female relevant employees.

Salary Quartiles

The proportion of male and female full-pay relevant 
employees in four pay bands.

 Full-pay relevant employees are ranked from 

highest to lowest paid

 Divided into four equal parts ('quartiles')
 The percentage of men and women is calculated 

in each of the four parts

9

10

