HUGO BOSS UK Ltd Gender Pay Report 2017

Our Commitment

One of the fundamental principles of our corporate culture is that everyone 
can and should contribute ideas and express their opinions at HUGO BOSS
UK Limited. We create the space that makes this possible and have built a 
workplace characterised by flat hierarchies in order to encourage our core 
values of cooperation, mutual respect, quality, passion and innovation to 
flourish.

This report shows that HUGO BOSS UK Limited has a gender pay gap. While 
all our employees are valued for their contribution, there is more we can do 
to ensure that we close this gap in the best interest of all our employees and 
the business. We are therefore committed to creating and delivering actions 
that address the identified gap.

The information in this report is an accurate reflection of the gender pay
differences at HUGO BOSS UK Limited. The calculation used a snapshot of
base pay on the 5 April 2017 and variable pay received in the 12 months prior
to this date.

Stephan Born, Managing Director – HUGO BOSS UK Limited

HUGO BOSS ©

2

What does this report show?

How have we calculated the data?

Under UK legislation that came into place in April 2017,
businesses with more than 250 employees are required to
publish data about their gender pay gap by April 2018. This
includes:

•

•

•

•

The gender pay differences between male and females 
basic pay

The gender pay differences between male and females 
for bonus

The percentage of males and females receiving a bonus

The number of males and females in each pay quartile. 
Basically this means how many females compared to 
men are paid in the top quartile, upper middle quartile, 
lower middle quartile and lower quartile of pay bands

The gender pay gap does not measure equal pay, which 
relates to what women and men are paid for doing the same 
or similar jobs or work of equal value. 

The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the average (mean) pay 
of males and females and the median (middle) – irrespective of their role, level 
and working hours – across the entire HUGO BOSS UK Limited business, 
expressed as a percentage. 

We calculated our base pay data for all UK employees employed with us as of 
5th April 2017 and variable pay received in the 12 months prior to this date. 
The data is an accurate reflection of the gender pay differences in 
HUGO BOSS UK Limited.  

Going forward this report will be created every 12 months and the data 
reported to the UK government and placed on our own web site each April. 

At HUGO BOSS UK Limited, basic pay includes a basic hourly rate payment 
and commission pay. The majority of our retail colleagues receive commission 
pay each month. This is an uncapped amount and can vary by month and by 
year. 

HUGO BOSS ©

3

HUGO BOSS UK Limited Data:

Our mean and median gender pay gaps are both lower than
the UK mean and median averages of *17.4% and 18.4%.

•

female
The HUGO BOSS UK Limited mean (average)
hourly rate is 7.2% lower than the HUGO BOSS UK
Limited mean male hourly rate.

 The HUGO BOSS UK Limited median (middle) female
hourly rate is 4.7% lower than the HUGO BOSS UK
Limited median male hourly rate.

*Office of National Statistics

CONTEXT

•

•

•

All our retail sales teams earn commission on the sales they make. This commission forms
part of their basic pay. All of our top earners – who each generate sales of over 1 million a
year – are male employees and they achieve these sales predominately through selling
menswear suits.

43% of our female employees work part time in our store entry level roles, which impacts on
the level of commission they can earn compared to their full time colleagues.

HUGO BOSS UK Limited prides itself in developing and retaining internal talent. As a
menswear brand there has been a history of a higher proportion of male retail employees,
which has impacted the development to senior level progression.

GENDER BONUS GAP

•

•

18% of
HUGO BOSS UK Limited receive a bonus.

females in HUGO BOSS UK Limited receive a bonus and 17% of males in

The mean female bonus pay is 43% lower than that of a male employee in HUGO BOSS UK
Limited. The median female bonus pay is 4% lower than that of a male employee in
HUGO BOSS UK Limited. This difference is driven by the Director team which at the time of
reporting were all male. As it currently stands there are now two female Directors within a
team of six.

PAY QUARTILES

FEMALE
MALE

HUGO BOSS ©

TOP

37%
63%

UPPER MIDDLE

LOWER MIDDLE

LOWER

42%
58%

46%
54%

51%
49%

4

Closing the gap

HUGO BOSS UK Limited is committed to closing the gender pay gap and will be working on delivering initiatives to improve how we attract, engage and develop 
underrepresented groups including female talent. 

ASKING OUR EMPLOYEES

CHANGING THE WAY WE WORK 

RECRUITMENT PROCESS

In order to ensure we are continuing to foster 

a culture that cultivates transparency and 

open dialogue we will be asking all 

employees to complete an annual employee 
survey in 2018. The purpose of this survey is 
to understand how HUGO BOSS UK Limited 
can better build upon creating an inclusive 

working environment. 

We acknowledge that offering flexible working 
opportunities for male and female employees 
will improve our ability to attract and retain a 
diverse work force. We will be reviewing our 

contracts and working with employees to 

ensure we are creating a flexible environment 

where employees can thrive. 

We will be reviewing our recruitment process, 

including where we advertise roles at 

HUGO BOSS UK Limited to ensure we are 

effectively creating awareness of 
opportunities amongst all groups.

HUGO BOSS ©

5

