Gender Pay Gap Report

On the 5th April 2017 Bron Afon Community Housing employed more 
than 250 people in permanent or fixed term contract roles which means 
that we are subject to the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017, and are required by law to publish details of our 
gender pay gap. Based on our pay data as at 5th April 2017, our Gender 
Pay Gap position is as follows:

Gender Pay Gap 

Mean gender pay gap is

Median gender pay gap is

8.42%

16.58%

This means that Male average pay 
is 8.42% higher than female average 
pay.

This means that Male median* pay is 16.58% higher 
than female pay
*(the median is the mid point when pay rates for all 
staff in each gender are listed from highest to lowest)

Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
We are required to report on the following:
•  Mean bonus gender pay gap  
• Proportion of male employees 
  who receive a bonus  
Bron  Afon did not pay a bonus in the year to 5 April 2017 so this is not applicable and 
therefore reported as 0% gap.

• Median bonus gender pay gap 
• Proportion of female employees 
  who receive a bonus

Pay Quartiles 
This shows in percentages, how many men and women are in each quarter of the Bron Afon 
payroll based on the hourly pay rate:

Lower Quartile
48.82%
30.47%
Upper Middle Quartile

51.18%
69.53%

50.78%
28.35%

Lower Middle Quartile

49.22%
71.65%
Upper Quartile

Statement

Understanding the Data
On 5th April 2017 Bron Afon employed 510 people in permanent or fixed term contract roles, 
with an overall gender split of 60.5% men and 39.5% women in the workforce.  Bron Afon 
has a large Direct Labour Organisation (DLO) of 135 employees (27% of workforce), and 
this workforce is predominately male (99.5%).  

510 staff

39.5%

women in the workforce

60.5%

men in the workforce

Within the pay structures that Bron Afon operates, the DLO have historically had access to 
a Career Pathway which enabled pay progression based on assessment, irrespective of job 
vacancies at the higher pay rates.  This ability to move through the pay progression bands 
without vacancies was removed in 2013.  A similar pay progression process is not available 
elsewhere in the organisation. We believe this difference is a significant contributor to the 
gender pay gap, with the median male hourly pay rate at £15.32 compared to £12.78 for 
women.
We have also identified that fewer women are in the two upper earnings quartiles, 75 
compared to 180 men (30%:70%). This suggests that career progression may be acting 
as an inhibitor to women’s pay with far fewer women occupying management positions 
compared to men.  It should be noted however that at the two most senior levels (Directors 
and Heads of Service) pay is determined by market benchmarking and any differences in 
pay are objectively justified on this basis.  In this group (at the time the snapshot of data was 
taken) there were 8 men and 7 women (53%: 47%). 
It is important to understand how the gender pay gap differs from Equal pay.  The Equality & 
Human Rights Commission outlines the differences as:
•  Equal pay means that men and women in the same employment performing equal work 
must receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010.
•  The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between men’s and women’s average 
earnings across an organisation or the labour market. 

Bron Afon is an equal pay employer and we work to ensure that we do not engage in 
practices that breach equal pay legislation.  We recognise that we have a median gender 
pay gap of 16.58 (compared to 18.4% for the UK as a whole and 20.8% for Torfaen, the area 
in which we operate)* and we are committed to putting in place actions to reduce it.

*ONS (2017), Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings: 2017 

What are we doing about the Gender Pay Gap
The actions below show our commitment to closing our gender pay gap and in delivering 
these actions we will address the underlying reasons for it:
1.  In 2017 Bron Afon embarked on a review of pay structures in the organisation with the 
objective of designing one pay model applicable to all employees irrespective of level 
in the organisation or type of role.  This will begin to address the inequalities that have 
developed due to different pay structures.  This is a major project and is scheduled for 
implementation in 2019.

2.  Bron Afon is committed to developing women into more senior roles. The Director of 

Organisational Development is the current Chair of the Welsh Housing Equality Network, 
and recently established an ‘Aspiring Women’ network for women in the housing sector 
in South Wales to address how women can act as role models for others, mentor 
others, build & maintain confidence in self and others. We are a signatory to the anti-
discrimination in maternity pledge.

3.  In its wider community role, Bron Afon provides a range of activities to support young 
women in the community to build their confidence and progress into employment and 
training. This work has been recognised through national awards. 

4.  We will review our approach to apprenticeships in our trades, to help encourage more 

women to take up a trade as a career with us and increase numbers of women in trades 
roles.

5.  We will look more into our data to see if there are other issues impacting the gender pay 

gap such as length of service, part time working, age. 

6.  All our employees are paid at least the Living Wage Foundation pay rate, and we will 

actively work to become an accredited Living Wage Employer.

7.  We will develop and build on our Equality Champions programme.
8.  Bron Afon has existing policies and provisions in place that reinforce our commitment to 

equality and we will review and build on these to help reduce the gender pay gap, looking 
at these through the “gender lens”:

changes)

  • Flexible working options for men and women to encourage positive work life balance
  • Enhanced maternity paternity and adoption leave and pay
  •  Equality Impact Assessments (which are used routinely to evaluate policies and key 
  • Equality and Diversity Strategy and Policy
  • Recruitment and selection policy including how women achieve promotion
  • Appraisal – personal development planning
9.   We will work through our organisational values described below to build on this to achieve 

improvements in gender equality:

Respect – we value everyone and treat all fairly, politely, and with dignity and respect.
Engage – we are proud to be owned by the community. We support and involve others in 
shaping what we do.
Ambition – we bring passion, creativity and commitment to what we do and want to be the 
best. We take pride in our work and celebrate successes.
Listen – we listen to understand what’s important. We are caring, responsive and open to 
change and improvement.

Alan Brunt 
Chief Executive Officer

Bron Afon Community Housing 
Tˆy Bron Afon 
William Brown Close 
Llantarnam Industrial Park 
Cwmbran 
Torfaen NP44 3AB

01633 620 111

bronafon.org.uk

/bronafon

