 

 

House of Commons 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

“As Corporate Officer for the House of Commons, I am pleased to be the first Clerk of the House of 
Commons responsible for publishing our gender pay gap figures under the new reporting requirements. 
Transparency, reporting and monitoring are an important step in recognising inequality, and we are 
committed to working to removing any inequity and creating a diverse and inclusive workplace. 

Whilst our gender pay gap figures are encouraging, we are not complacent. We recognise that there is 
more to be done, in particular to increase female representation at senior levels and around the bonus 
pay gap. We are proud to have introduced a range of measures to address the problem, including a talent 
management programme, embedding flexible working within our day to day processes, and we are 
committed to doing more. 

As the facilitator of our democracy, the House of Commons must lead the way in offering equal 
opportunities to all staff, and of course pay is a significant element of that.” 

 

 

 

David Natzler 
Clerk of the House of Commons 

 

1 

 

House of Commons pay gap figures 
In 2017 the government introduced new legislation requiring organisations employing more than 250 
people to annually publish their gender pay gap figures. This is the first time the House of Commons has 
published a full report on gender pay gap data. 

The House of Commons takes pride in being a responsible and supportive employer and is committed to 
ensuring equality at all levels. We employ over 2,200 people across a huge range of specialisms. From 
clock makers, cleaners, and clerks to researchers, baristas and locksmiths; our staff team is diverse and 
unique.  
 
Gender pay gap regulations require the House of Commons to report using data based on a ‘snapshot’ of 
relevant employees taken on 5 April 2017. At the time the data below was collected, the gender divide 
amongst our staff was 44.6% women and 55.4% men. 
 
 

55.4% of all our 

workforce are men 

59.2% of our most 

senior staff  
(SCS) are men 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

44.6% of all our 

workforce are women 

40.8% of our most 

senior staff  

(SCS) are women 

 

What is a gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and women, expressed 
relative to men’s earnings. Organisations are required to publish: 

•  mean gender pay gap (%); 
•  median gender pay gap (%); 
•  proportion of males and females in each quartile band (%).  
•  mean bonus pay gap (%);  
•  median bonus pay gap (%); 
•  proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment (%).  

 

2 

 

House of Commons pay gap data 
The mean and median figures for pay show a small gap between the average earnings of men and 
women. The mean and median figures show that men are paid on average 1.7% and 1% more than 
women. Across all pay grades in the House of Commons, the overall male to female ratio is broadly 
replicated across each pay quartile. However, it is clear from the figures that there is more to be done, in 
particular to increase female representation in senior roles.  

Median pay gap: 1.0% 

 

Mean pay gap: 1.7% 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The proportion of our male and female employees in each pay quartile 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

 

House of Commons bonus gap data 
Our data on bonus payments is more complex. The data shows that more men than women receive 
bonus payments, and that the payments received are on average 17.1% higher for men than they are for 
women. The median difference is higher at 42.7%, however, the data includes a variety of one-off 
payments which may not traditionally be considered ‘bonuses’. These include lump-sum pay awards 
(resulting from changes to pay across all fully effective staff), recognition awards (including £25 vouchers 
awarded to staff for good work) as well as performance bonuses paid to staff in the Senior Commons 
(SCS) pay bands.  

Performance related bonus payments are only paid to senior House of Commons staff (SCS grade), and 
higher pay bands have historically received higher bonus payments. To give a more accurate picture of 
the pay gap relating to bonuses paid as a result of good performance, the House has disclosed 
information about the bonus pay gap for senior (SCS) House staff. This voluntary disclosure includes 
bonus payments made to the most senior (SCS) staff of the Parliamentary Digital Service. The 
Parliamentary Digital Service uses the same pay policies as the House of Commons and decisions about 
senior pay for both employers are made by the Senior Remuneration Committee of the House of 
Commons Commission. 

The combined SCS data shows that SCS men were paid 13.1% more than SCS women in bonus payments. 
The median gap for SCS bonuses was 0%. The discrepancy between the SCS bonus mean and the median 
is as a result of the way the averages are calculated – median figures tend to be less affected by outliers, 
resulting in a very different picture. However, we recognise that more work is needed to understand why 
last year men in the SCS received higher bonus payments than women. 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Mean bonus pay gap: 17.1% 

Median bonus pay gap: 42.7% 

  

 

42.4% of men 

received a bonus 

 
 
 
 
 
 

35.0% of women 
received a bonus 

 

Senior Commons & PDS staff bonuses 

 

  

Mean bonus gap: 13.1% 

  

Median bonus gap: 0% 

 

4 

 

What do these figures mean? 
In comparison with the national median average of 9.1%1, the House of Commons pay gap is small. 
However, there is much more to be done to done to reach gender pay parity. Our bonus pay gap clearly 
demonstrates this. Since this data was captured, the House has reviewed its performance related bonus 
policy. Bonuses are no longer tiered according to seniority, but are consistent across all levels. We expect 
this to narrow the gap between men and women’s bonus earnings and will monitor this carefully.   

The House is committed to providing a workplace where all staff are valued equally. We are a London 
Living Wage employer, rated as the 23rd best UK employer in the Stonewall workplace equality index and 
have a silver disability standard accreditation. In 2015/16, the Speaker established an advisory group to 
look into the recruitment and retention of BAME staff within the House of Commons workforce and we 
are now listed by Business in the Community as one of the UK’s best employers for BAME people. Over 
recent years the House of Commons and UK Parliament have championed workplace equality initiatives – 
introducing policies including shared parental leave, flexible working and childcare vouchers, which have 
been shown to help break down the barriers to true gender equality in the workplace.  

Our Diversity and Inclusion strategy has set ambitious objectives for ensuring equality within the House 
of Commons. Our excellent Workplace Equality Networks (including ParliGender, which works to 
promote gender equality in Parliament) mean we have taken significant strides to achieving a more equal 
work environment. 

However, we recognise that there is more to be done. Gender pay gap data reveals only part of the 
picture, and we recognise that whilst our GPG information is encouraging, we must not be complacent.  

“It is encouraging to see that House of Commons data reveals a relatively small pay gap of 1.7%. But of 
course, there is much more to be done. We must lead the way in ensuring that we deliver equal pay across 
different genders and other protected characteristics, and while we are working hard to get there we have 
more to do. In this historic institution, we must strive to provide the most modern of workplaces – one in 
which inequality is non-existent and diversity is celebrated”. 

 

 

Myfanwy Barrett, 
Managing Director of Corporate Services and Director of Finance 

 

                                                             
1 ONS figures referenced in Commons Briefing Paper 7068 “The Gender Pay Gap”  

5 

 

