 

 
Xtrac  limited  is  recognised  as  the  world  leader  in  the  design  and  manufacture  of  high 
performance  transmission  systems  supporting  a  wide  client  base  covering  top  level 
professional Motorsport and specialist High Performance Automotive. 
 
The  Gender  Pay  Gap  report  is  based  on  data  as  at  5th  April  2017.  On  this  date  94%  of 
employees were male and 6% were female. 
 
The  data  presented  below  has  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  the  Equality  Act  2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  
 
The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates 
of pay as at 5th April 2017.  
 
Pay Gap 
 

Difference between Men and Women 

 

 

Pay 

Mean 

23% 

Median 
 
6% 
 

 
 
Bonus Gap 
 
No bonuses were awarded to any employee. 
 
 
Pay Quartiles 
 
 
 
Lowest 
 

 

 

 

 

 

11%

89%

Male

Female

 

 

 

 

 

Quartile 2 

3%

97 %

Male

Female

 
Quartile 3 
 

7%

 

 

 

 

 

Highest 

Male

Female

 

93 %

 
 
Commentary 
 

 

Male

Female

3%

97%

•  There are no differences in pay rates for different genders occupying equivalent roles 
at Xtrac Limited and we are confident that any gap in pay identified is as a result of 
gender mix rather than the result of any pay difference between males and females 
of a similar grade. 

•  We  acknowledge  that  this  gender  mix  of  staff  highlights  a  separate  issue  which  is 
currently  the  norm  in  our  industry  which  is  traditionally  male  dominated.    We  pride 
ourselves in our recruitment process and our open and inclusive ethos and emphasis 
of  in  trying  our  best  to  encouraging  females  into  STEM  roles.  At  Xtrac  we  have  an 
award winning apprenticeship and undergraduate schemes which are open for all to 
apply. To encourage females into these schemes we visit local schools, colleges and 
careers  fairs  to  highlight  the  different  careers  in  engineering  and  the  opportunities 
available to them at Xtrac. 

•  We have a number of night shift operatives and they have a premium applied to their 

pay rate which has been accounted for in the data. 

 

 

 

•  We  will  continue  to  strive  to  ensure  that  we  make  Xtrac  Limited  an  employer  of 
choice  and  we  will  continually  review  our  equality,  diversity  and  inclusion  policies 
currently in place to ensure no employee is unfavourably treated due to their gender 
or any other characteristic.  
 

I confirm that the data reported is accurate 

 

Adrian Moore 
Chief Executive Officer 
March 2018 

