2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

WELCOME TO OUR 
GENDER PAY REPORT

Whirlpool Corporation wouldn’t be the global home appliance leader without our people.

We encourage diversity and embrace teamwork, integrity and respect. It is very important to myself and 
my leadership team that we continue to grow this culture which recognises and values the contribution 
that both men and women make to our business.

Ensuring that we continue to encourage career progression for everyone in our business, regardless of
gender, has always been at the heart of our leadership team’s agenda. We remunerate and reward our 
people based on their performance and the contribution that they make.

We work hard to provide both consistency and transparency within our pay decision-making process to 
ensure that decisions are made based on market data and role performance.

I’m very proud to lead a strong and diverse workforce. Our gender pay gap compares well to both national 
and industry statistics but my team and I are committed to further reduce this gap in the coming years.

Andrzej Tuleja
General Manager
Whirlpool UK Appliances Ltd

OUR GENDER PAY STATISTICS (snapshot pay period 5th April 2017)

Difference in Mean Pay

Difference in Median Pay

Difference in Mean Bonus

Difference in Median Bonus

2017
16.6%

20.4%

23.1%

39.7%

DIFFERENCE IN BONUS PAYOUT(based on 12 months up to the snapshot date 5th April 2017 - 
period April 2016 to April 2017)
In 2017

78%
of women
received
a bonus* 

89%
of men
received
a bonus* 

*A bonus is defined as a sales bonus, performance incentive or company profit share scheme.

QUARTILE RANGES (percentage of gender according to salary brackets)

Females
50%

Females
21%

LOWER

LOWER
MIDDLE

Females
6%

Females
17%

UPPER 
MIDDLE

UPPER

Males
50%

Males
79%

Males
94%*

Males
83%

*Upper Middle Quartile: mainly engineers and drivers roles on the field.

LOOKING TO 
THE FUTURE

Continuing to make decisions on pay that are irrespective of gender.

We’re very proud to have a diverse workforce and this is reflected in our business practices.

Over the past few years we have worked hard to structure our organisation and our principles regarding 
rewarding and remunerating our people so that gender is not a factor. For example all our people in our 
call centre and engineering teams now have exactly the same rate for their role, regardless of gender or 
other aspects such as experience and age.

We recognise that this is a journey and we have a strong focus to ensure we recruit, engage and retain 
more women in our team, especially in senior positions.

This journey will continue to make Whirlpool Corporation a great place to work for everybody. It’s this 
principle that helps us to create moments that matter.

Whirlpool UK Appliances Ltd
Morley Way, Peterborough, PE2 9JB

