	

	
Gender	Pay	Gap	Report	-	30th	March	2018	
Snapshot	date:	31st	March	2017	

	

Under	new	laws,	welcomed	by	Thinking	Schools	Academy	Trust	we	are	required	to	publish	an	annual	
gender	pay	gap	report.		

The	gender	pay	gap	gives	a	snapshot	of	the	gender	balance	within	an	organisation.	It	measures	the	
difference	between	the	average	earnings	of	all	male	and	female	employees,	irrespective	of	their	role	
or	seniority.		

	
This	report	is	for	the	snapshot	date	of	31st	March	2017.		

The	Mean	Gender	Pay	Gap	in	Hourly	Pay	
The	Median	Gender	Pay	Gap	in	Hourly	Pay	
The	Mean	Bonus	Gender	Pay	Gap	
The	Median	Bonus	Gender	Pay	Gap	
		
The	 Proportion	 of	 Males	 and	 Females	
Receiving	a	Bonus	Payment	

		

		

		

		

		

22.08%	
33.52%	
1.94%	
49.53%	
		

Males	

0.51%	

		

Females	

0.88%	

	

	

	

Pay	Quartiles	by	gender	

		

Your	Proportion	of	Males	and	Females	in	Each	
Quartile	Band	-		
		
		
		
		
		

		
		 Upper	Quartile	
		 Upper	Middle	Quartile	
		 Lower	Middle	Quartile	
		 Lower	Quartile	

Males	

		
33.99%	
24.18%	
24.18%	
9.74%	

Females	

		
66.01%	
75.82%	
75.82%	
90.26%	

	

	

The	figures	set	out	above	have	been	calculated	using	the	standard	methodologies	used	in	the	Equality	
Act	2010	Gender	Pay	Gap	Information	Regulation	2017	and	the	ACAS	Guidance	Managing	the	Gender	
Pay	Gap.		

	

What	are	the	underlying	causes	of	our	gender	pay	gap?	

Under	the	law,	men	and	women	must	receive	equal	pay	for:	

•  The	same	or	broadly	similar	work	
•  Work	rated	as	equivalent	under	a	job	evaluation	scheme	or		
•  Work	of	equal	value	

Thinking	 Schools	 Academy	 Trust	 are	 committed	 to	 the	 principal	 of	 equal	 opportunities	 and	 equal	
treatment	for	all	employees.		

We	are	confident	that	the	gender	pay	gap	does	not	stem	from	paying	men	and	women	differently	for	
the	same	equivalent	work.		

Rather	our	gender	pay	gap	is	the	result	of	the	roles	in	which	men	and	women	work	within	the	Trust	
and	 the	 salaries	 that	 these	 roles	 attract	 for	 example	 roles	 such	 as	 cleaners	 and	 midday	 meal	
supervisors	in	the	vast	majority	of	cases	are	held	by	females	and	these	roles	typically	sit	at	one	of	our	
lower	pay	ranges.	This	would	therefore	have	an	influence	on	our	gender	pay	gap.	

It	should	be	noted	that	when	calculating	the	gender	pay	gap	within	education,	teacher’s	terms	and	
conditions	and	term	time	only	workers	have	an	impact	on	the	overall	gender	pay	gap.		

Due	to	the	way	term	time	only	salaries	are	calculated,	they	are	paid	in	1/12s	but	work	far	more	than	
1/12	of	their	annual	hours	in	March,	this	impacts	their	hourly	rate	of	pay		when	using	the	gender	pay	
gap	calculation.	We	have	used	the	recommend	calculation	for	term	tie	only	staff	provided	by	the	
Government	in	the	ACAS	guidance.	This	has	allowed	us	to	calculate	the	most	accurate	average	hourly	
rate	of	pay	for	term	time	only	staff.			

Under	the	gender	pay	reporting	calculation	teacher’s	average	hourly	rate	has	to	be	calculated	on	32.5	
hours	per	week	compared	to	37	hours	per	week	for	their	counter	parts.	 So	for	example	a	female	
teacher	who	is	on	the	same	annual	salary	as	a	male	full	time,	all	year	round	support	staff	has	an	
average	hourly	rate	of	approximately	£10	less.		

We	had	one	male	member	of	staff	who	received	a	bonus	of	approximately	£1200	and	six	female	
members	of	staff	who	received	a	bonus	of	an	average	of	£600.		

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

How	does	our	pay	gap	compare	to	others?	

Our	mean	average	gender	pay	gap	is	22%.	The	national	average	gender	pay	gap	is	18%	and	the	national	
average	gender	pay	gap	in	the	education	sector	is	26%.	Whist	our	gender	pay	gap	is	higher	than	the	
national	average	we	are	below	the	national	average	within	the	education	sector.		

Our	gender	pay	gap	is	similar	to	a	majority	of	educational	establishments	that	have	already	published	
their	data,	whilst	there	are	some	that	have	a	reported	a	lower	gender	pay	gap	and	others	higher	
gender	pay	gap.		

I	have	not	been	able	to	compare	our	gender	pay	gap	to	other	academies	in	Kent	at	this	stage,	however	
an	academy	trust	in	Portsmouth	have	reported	a	mean	gender	pay	gap	of	27%.		

	

	

	

Lee	Miller		

Deputy	Chief	Executive	Officer		

	

