 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

 
 

1.  Background 
 
Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, all 
organisations that employ over 250 employees are required to report annually on their 
gender pay gap.  This is the first year that UK organisations have been required to do this.   
 
 
2.  What is a gender pay gap 
 
The gender pay gap is the difference in the average and median pay between men and 
women in a workforce at a single point in time (March 2017). 
 
 
3.  How is the gender pay gap calculated 
 
The calculations make use of two averages and the differences in pay are expressed as a 
percentage: 
 

  A mean average involves adding up all hourly rates and dividing the result by how 

many staff were including in the list.  
 

  A median average involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order.  The 

median average is the middle number. 
 
The gender pay gap is the % difference between males and females when we look 
at the above measures. 

 

 

 

  A positive percentage figure reveals that, on average overall, female employees 

have lower pay or bonuses than male employees. 

  A negative percentage figure reveals that, on average overall, male employees 

have lower pay or bonuses than female employees. 

 
 
4.  A gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay  
 
It is important to note that in contrast to the ‘gender pay gap’, ‘equal pay’ is a more 
specific legal concept that deals with the pay differences between men and women 
carrying out comparable jobs.  Men and women in comparable jobs are entitled to the 
same pay unless an employer can show differences in pay are justified. 
 
A gender pay gap does not equate to the existence of an equal pay problem and the 
College firmly believes that its structured pay and reward systems, and the measures it has 
undertaken in relation to these, (use of the national pay scale for lecturing staff, job 
evaluation process for business support staff) has meant that pay for men and women 
performing equal work is aligned to pay system and structures and not dependent on 
gender.  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

 
 

5.  Reward & Pay at Cardiff and Vale College – ensuring equal pay 
 
For a number of years, the College has had clear and transparent pay frameworks that 
allow the College to consistently and fairly reward its staff.  
 
For Academic staff, the College utilises nationally agreed (with the recognised Trade 
Unions) pay scales and pay agreements that allow the College to objectively pay staff 
based on their role, skills, qualifications and experience. 
 
For Business Support staff, the College has untaken an extensive job evaluation 
programme (in consultation with the recognised Trade Unions) where it systematically 
assesses individual jobs to assess their relative size using an objective framework and then 
pay according to an agreed pay scale.  
 
For Management roles, the College takes part in sector wide pay and reward surveys and 
benchmarks its roles against this data.  Senior post holder pay is evaluated and 
recommended by the College’s remuneration committee and agreed by the Main Board 
of Governors.  
 
The College also voluntarily pays its staff in accordance with the Living Wage Foundation 
guidelines (rather than the lower government legislation for the minimum ‘Living Wage’).  
 
6.  The results of the gender pay gap calculations 
 
The data below is a snapshot of data taken for Cardiff and Vale College at the end of 
March 2017.  There were 825 ‘relevant employees’ included in the analysis in accordance 
with the guidelines, the gender of these employees was:  
 

Males 

Females 

337 
41% 

488 
59% 

 
The Colleges mean average gender pay gap was 7.4% and the median was 18.8%. 
 

Hourly rates 
of pay 
Mean pay 
(average) 
Median 
(Mid-point) 

Female 

Male 

Difference 

£15.76 

£17.02 

(%) 
7.4% 

£14.83 

£18.26 

18.8% 

 
National figures for this exercise will be available in April for further comparison work to be 
undertaken, however in the meantime we note the median figure compares with the 
26.7% reported for the Education sector by the Office of National Statistics (2015/16). 
 
As noted above, a gender pay gap does not mean there are issues around equal pay.  
 
In addition, as with all statistics and benchmarks, the headline figure very rarely provides 
the “answer” – but indicates where “questions” need to be asked.  The College has 
therefore undertaken a detailed analysis to understand and explore what the makeup 
and implications of the gender pay gap are. 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

 
6.  The results of the gender pay gap calculations (continued) 
 

 
 

 
 

 
% 
No 

Gender within each pay quartile 

Lower Quartile 

Lower / Middle 

Upper / Middle 

Upper Quartile 

 

Quartile 

Quartile 

 

Female  Male 
36.9% 
63.1% 

Female 
66.5% 

130 

76 

137 

Male 
33.5% 

69 

Female 
54.1% 

112 

Male 
45.9% 

95 

Female  Male 
47.1% 
52.9% 

109 

97 

 
The pay quartiles analysis provides an opportunity for the College to understand the 
percentages of males and females within the 4 broad categories or quartiles.   
 
There are more females employed by the College overall (F-59% /M-41%), however, within 
the two lower (paid) quartiles we can see that there are a higher than that average 
proportion of females within these categories (in excess of 60% in both of the lower 
quartiles).  It is this imbalance in the gender mix that drives the overall “mean” and 
median” pay gap figures reported above. 
 
Within the College, some of the explanation for this is due to the higher number of females 
within professions and roles that have ‘traditionally’ tended to be dominated by females.   
 
Our analysis shows these roles include learner support and learning coaches, nursery and 
crèche staff, student service and administrative teams and this helps explain some of the 
differences with a large proportion of female staff working in these areas.   
 
Within the two higher (paid) quartiles there is also a higher proportion of females than 
males, so on average, females are paid more than males.  Some of this affect can be 
explained in the same way as the lower paid roles, where certain professions are 
dominated by females.  For example, within the College, the teaching profession tends to 
attract more females and those females have tended to progress to become managers 
however we have analysed this “management progression” issue further below.   
 
7.  What “issues” might the gender pay gap indicate 
 
The requirement to publish gender pay gap figures has led to an increased focus on what 
issues might be “hidden below the surface” and leading to inequality between male and 
female employees.  The College has therefore analysed our data to explore four of the 
most commonly considered issues: 
 

 

 

 

 

There is a “glass ceiling”, preventing female staff being part of the senior 
management earning the higher salaries; 
 
There are “barriers to promotion” to managerial roles for female staff; 
 
There are “barriers” to female staff being part of a “professional” cohort of staff; 
 
There is historic bias in rates of pay between male and female staff 

 
We comment below on each of those potential “issues” and the extent to which there is 
any evidence of such issues in the College. 

 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

7.  What “issues” might the gender pay gap indicate (continued) 
 
Is there a “glass ceiling” 
 
 

Higher Paid Staff (more than £60,000 per year) 

 
 

Number of staff 
Male 

Female  Male 
40.78 

6 

Female  % GAP  Male 
35.65 

41.60 

-2% 

6 

Mean Hourly Pay 

Median 
Female  % GAP 

35.65 

0% 

 
 
The analysis above is of our higher paid staff (earning over £60,000 per year) excluding the 
Chief Executive who was appointed via open public advertisement process. 
 
It shows there is no evidence of a glass ceiling in the College as: 
 

 

 

There are an equal number of males and females in this cohort; and 
 
There is a small “mean” pay gap in favour of females. 

 
Are there barriers to promotion 
 
 

Managers  

Mean Hourly Pay 

Number of staff 
Male 

Female  Male 
22.36 

24 

Female  % GAP  Male 
20.94 

23.41 

-5% 

23 

Median 
Female  % GAP 
-10% 

22.96 

 
 
The analysis above is of our managers. 
 
It shows there is no evidence of barriers to promotion as: 
 

 

 

There is one more female member of staff in this cohort; and 
 
There are small mean and median pay gaps in favour of females. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

7.  What “issues” might the gender pay gap indicate (continued) 
 
Are there barriers to joining the “professional” cohort of staff 
 

Number of staff 
Male 

Female  Male 

Female  %GAP  Male 

Academic Staff 

Mean Hourly Pay 

 
 

Median 
Female  %GAP 

 
 

Academic 

Total 
(Full time 
/Fractional) 
Part time 

157 

205 

18.30 

17.45 

5% 

19.12 

18.43 

4% 

134 

23 

142 

18.61 

18.09 

63 

16.50 

16.00 
 

3% 

3% 

19.12 

18.43 

18.43 

17.02 

4% 

8% 

The analysis above is of our academic staff with a further sub analysis of the difference 
between full time and fractional contracts and part time hourly paid staff. 
 
It shows there is no evidence of barriers to joining the professional cohort as: 
 

 

There are more female (57%) than male (43%) academic staff. 

 
There is a small pay gap in favour of males amongst this cohort.  We would not expect a 
significant pay gap in this cohort as all staff are paid according to nationally agreed pay 
scales with entry to the scale dependent on skills, qualifications and experience.  Any pay 
gap will relate to respective positions on that pay scale. 
 
The College does recognise that there are certain lecturing academic roles, for example 
within engineering and construction (and conversely hair and beauty) where there is a 
gender imbalance and the College would very much like to recruit and develop more 
females into these areas in the future and is taking an active role to address this and has 
introduced its “aspiring teachers” programme to seek to encourage business support staff 
in the College to pursue a teaching qualification. 
 
 
Is there historic bias in rates of pay between male and female staff 
 

Number of staff 
Male 
150 

Female  Male 
11.73 

253 

Business Support Staff 

Mean Hourly Pay 

Female  %GAP  Male 
11.07 

11.43 

3% 

Median 
Female  %GAP 

11.08 

0% 

 
The above analysis is of our business support staff, and with 63% of staff in this cohort being 
female it reflects the point made above that this cohort of staff includes those roles that 
the College has tended to see more females working within, for example, learner support 
and learning coaches, nursery and crèche, student service and administrative teams. 
 
This greater number of female staff in these roles led to the size of the overall “gender pay 
gap” figures showing lower average and median rates of pay for females.  However, as 
can be seen above, that was an “anomaly/result” of the statistical calculation, as there is 
only a very small mean pay gap – and no median pay gap - within the business support 
staff cohort. 
 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

 
 

8.  Bonus pay 
 
Bonuses are paid to a very small number of staff working in our commercial teams.  Only 14 
staff in total receive bonuses and this is made up of equal numbers (7) males and females. 
 
The mean average bonus pay difference between male and female was 22.4% and the 
median was 70%, however, with such small numbers it is important to note that the 
information is sensitive to individual staff bonus payments. 
 
It is also necessary to understand that there were two different types of bonus payments 
made, one ‘Sales related’ paid on the basis of income and sales targets related KPIs and a 
second ‘Support related’ bonus, for staff providing account management and other 
support functions.  
 
Whilst the “overall” bonus gender pay gap was in favour of male staff, the analysis below 
of the different types of bonus paid shows gender pay gaps in favour of females.  
 

 
 

  
Female 

Male 

 

 

7 
7 

Number 
of staff  Mean 
3,725 

Sales Bonus 

% 
Gap  Median 

Bonus 

% 

Support Bonus 

Gap  Mean  % Gap  Median  % Gap 

2,800 

33.0% 

-

3,725 

2,500 

-

49.0% 

800 
375 

-

113.3% 

750 
375 

-

100.0% 

 
 
9.  Next steps - Action Plan 
 
Recruitment 
 

 

 

 

The College will engage with organisations such as ‘Chwarae Teg’ and ‘Business in 
the Community’ to identify approaches to supporting more women to enter male 
dominated professions and roles; 
 
The College will continue to develop its recruitment programme including refresher 
training for managers on unconscious bias and recruitment techniques, continue 
best practice ‘blind’ shortlisting, and advertising all roles internally to support internal 
progression opportunities; and 
 
The HR department will develop monitoring and reporting of recruitment information 
to understand the recruitment and attraction of females into roles where they are 
underrepresented. 

 
Equality & Diversity 
 

 

The College is an established ‘Leader in Diversity’. The National Centre for Diversity 
(NCFD) has confirmed that Cardiff and Vale College features at number 21 in the 
Top 100 Index.  The Top 100 Index highlights the very best of the UK across 600 
organisations.  The College will continue to champion its cause of being Inclusive, 
Inspirational and Influential.  This will be achieved through the continuation of staff 
learning and development on all matters relating to equality and diversity. 

 

 

 

 

 

Cardiff & Vale College Gender Pay Gap Report – 2017 

9.  Next steps - Action Plan (continued) 
 
Staff Development 

 
 

 

 

 
The College has implemented the ‘Aspiring Teachers Programme’ giving 
opportunities for business support staff to undertake a full funded PGCE.  In 2017 six 
females and five males have commenced this programme; 
 
The Management Development programme, internally known as ‘The Leadership 
Journey’ will continue to develop all managers which further supports progression of 
both males and females into more senior roles; 
 

  A corresponding ‘Staff Journey’ programme is planned and will be developed to 

prepare staff, ready for their next career move; 
 
The College is rolling out a Coaching Programme to continue to help staff develop 
and promote progression into higher paid roles; and 
 
The College encourages staff to undertake continuing professional development as 
well as developing professional qualifications and training. 

 

 

 
Apprentices 

 

 
The College employs its own apprentices, promoting from within and developing 
skills needed for progression to higher paid career paths.  The HR team will monitor 
staff progression into permanent roles. 

 
Flexible Working 
 

  Cardiff and Vale College already has a number of flexible working policies and 

work practices that allow a large number of staff to work part time and flexibly. In 
addition, the College has been developing further proposals that will allow further 
flexibility within working practices so that the workforce can be more agile.  

 
Maternity Policy 
 

 

The College will review its maternity policy to ensure that females are fully supported 
both during their maternity leave and on their return to their careers at the College. 

 
 
Declaration of Senior Postholder 
 
We declare that this is accurate reflection of our gender pay gap according to the 
requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Signed  - Mark Roberts – Chief Operating Officer  …………………..Date – 28 March 2018 

 

 

