 

 
 

 

Ben – Support for life 

Gender pay gap 
report 

2017 

      

 

 
 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 
employees are required to publish their gender pay gap in order to show what the pay gap is between 
male and female employees. 
 
 
 
Headline gender pay figures  

The information below shows our median and mean gender pay gap and bonus pay gap based on 
hourly rates of pay as at 5th April 2017 and bonuses paid in the year to 5th April. Where the analysis 
shows a positive figure this denotes the pay percentage for male colleagues exceeded that of female 
colleagues. Where there is a negative figure this denotes the pay percentage for female colleagues 
exceeded that of male colleagues.      
 
 
 
Pay and bonus gap 

 

Analysis 

Gender pay gap 

Gender bonus pay 
gap 

Median 

4.1% 

-6% 

Mean 

12.7% 

-60% 

 
 
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus  

 

Female 
Male 

 
 
Mean pay gap 

Upper Quartile  
Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 
Lower Quartile 

 

 
 
 

8.2% 
5.4% 

23.98% 
-3.75% 
0.12% 
3.90% 

 

2 

 
 
Understanding the gap 

Ben’s workforce is made up of significantly more female than male staff and the lower paid roles of 
care staff, housekeeping and catering staff are predominately undertaken by female colleagues. At 
the reporting date Ben employed 92 men and 305 women. This profile reflects the nature of the 
sectors of care and health and wellbeing sector.  
 
Although there is an overall (mean) pay gap of 12.7%, there is only a significant difference in the 
Upper Quartile. This is because this quartile consists of a wide range of roles, from Care Centre 
Managers to the Executive team. In the two lowest quartiles the pay gap is a much smaller and we are 
confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the equivalent jobs across our organisation. 
The pay gap is related to colleagues carrying out different roles within the same quartile. 
 
With regards to bonuses, the variance relates to the job roles where bonuses are included and Ben 
currently has more female colleagues employed in those roles than male colleagues.  
 
Ben is an inclusive and diverse organisation where all colleagues have the opportunity to work to 
their potential.       

 

 

3 

