      Close  Search for Vehicles  Popular Used Car Makes  Audi  Bmw  Citroen  Fiat  Ford  Mini  Nissan  Renault  Seat  Vauxhall  Volkswagen  Popular Used Car Models  1 Series  500  A1  A3  Astra  C1  Captur  Clio  Corsa  Ds3  Fiesta  Golf  Hatchback  Ibiza  Polo  Used Cars By Location  Used Cars in Manchester Used Cars in Manchester  Ford Focus  Vauxhall Corsa  Ford Mondeo  Fiat Punto  Audi A1  Bmw 1 Series  Hyundai I10   Used Cars in Wakefield Used Cars in Wakefield  Ford Focus  Ford Fiesta  Vauxhall Corsa  Renault Megane  Ford Mondeo   Used Cars in Sheffield Used Cars in Sheffield  Ford Fiesta  Vauxhall Corsa  Renault Megane  Ford Mondeo   Used Cars in Warrington Used Cars in Warrington  Vauxhall Corsa  Ford Fiesta    Finance Car Finance Finance Calculator Bad Credit Can I Get Finance? What is Hire Purchase? Outstanding Finance Glossary Part-ex Our Difference Why choose our cars? Why choose us? Our brand Reevoo Reviews of The Car People Blog Our Showrooms Our Locations  Manchester  Wakefield  Sheffield  Warrington  Sell Your Car  My Account  Login/Register   Visit the Friends Portal Call us on 0333 222 6599  Menu Friends  Account  The hassle-free way to buy a car 0333 222 6599 Our Call Centre is open until 9pm Mon-Fri 8pm Mon - Fri       92% would buy from us again Every car checked by 8 specialists Prices checked daily    Find your next car here Search available cars All Makes All Models Search by price Search by payment No Minimum Selected No Maximum Selected No Minimum Selected No Maximum Selected Search    What do our customers say about us? 92% would buy again from The Car People Read independent reviews from Welcome back! Click here to see your recently viewed cars Our Wakefield car supermarket Find our more about our showroom here Our Manchester car supermarket Find our more about our showroom here Our Sheffield car supermarket Find our more about our showroom here Our Warrington car supermarket Find our more about our showroom here Previous Next Welcome to The Car People Cars prepared to a standard not a budget Get benefits from our Friends Portal Expert advice from our Sales Advisors Start your search online and continue in the showroom Cars in stock today Wakefield (895) Manchester (563) Sheffield (661) Warrington (589) Used Car Supermarket: Why Choose Us? Here at The Car People, we're not your typical used car dealers - visit one of our car supermarkets in Manchester,  Wakefield,  Sheffield,  Warrington, and you'll soon discover why we're different. Our huge selection of used cars are all hand-picked, vetted by the best, prepared to a standard and priced to give great value. Plus our used car supermarkets are all laid out to be as browser-friendly as possible, so you can easily find what you're after. Used Car Dealers You Can Trust The Car People team are always here to help, and we're dedicated to making our customers happy. Need some advice and guidance?  We can point you in the right direction, and we'll answer any questions you have honestly and openly. Prefer to look around yourself? Well that's fine too - we'll give you the space you need to make the right decision for you. This upfront, 'no pressure' approach is just one of the many reasons why buying a used car at one of our car dealerships is totally hassle-free. Once you've found the perfect car, we want you to feel 100% confident you've made the right choice. We'll guide you through the whole buying process from start to finish, and also offer a range of flexible finance options to suit your budget and your needs  Find Your Ideal Used Car Today  You can start browsing our used cars for sale right now - just use the search box above to tell us what you're looking for and we'll do the rest.     CONTACT US   JOIN OUR TEAM   SITEMAP   FAQ   BLOG  The Car People Ltd, Registered office: The Car People Limited, 2 Penman Way, Grove Park, Leicester, LE19 1ST. Registered in England No: 3743283. VAT registration number: 610 6250 86. Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Copyright © The Car People 2018  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Modern Slavery Statement | Gender Pay Gap Report   OK   × Close Notice Our call centre is now closed but can be contacted between 9am and 9pm, Monday to Friday. Close   