CDW UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017
Committed to opportunity for our coworkers

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Our Values and Beliefs
We value diversity and believe in job opportunities for everyone 
irrespective of gender across all areas of our business. We seek to 
create a diverse and inclusive environment that embraces individual 
difference and deem it an increasingly important business imperative. 

Required Reporting
The gender pay gap measures the difference between men’s and 
women’s earnings by expressing women’s pay as a percentage of 
men’s pay. It is meant to show gender representation in specific
roles. This is different from equal pay, which refers to receiving the 
same pay for the same work, or work of an equal value.

Our 2017 gender pay gap analysis shows that the overall difference
in earnings between men and women in our UK workforce is
37.3% (mean) and 14.3% (median) based on hourly rates.

Understanding the Gap
Our gender pay gap in the UK, like many others in the technology 
industry, is due to the current shape of our workforce. 

CDW’s UK workforce was, at the time of analysis, 1,012 coworkers. 
Overall, CDW UK is 75% male and 25% female. Our Sales, Services 
and Operations team is 950 coworkers and is 77% male and 23% 
female. Our non-sales roles total 71 coworkers and are 51% male
and 49% female.

Our results are heavily influenced by the fact that significantly more 
men work in our sales roles, and have a higher earning capacity 
through uncapped commissions and other incentives tied to
performance. While a larger proportion of women than men receive 
bonus payments, those bonuses are often smaller because non-sales 
roles do not attract commission.

HOURLY PAY GAP 
The hourly pay gap, as defined by the 
regulations, reviews base salary as an 
hourly figure in addition to bonus,
commission or other payments. 

MEAN 37.3%      MEDIAN 14.3%
(AVERAGE)               (MIDPOINT)

PAY QUARTILES BY GENDER

UPPER

UPPER MIDDLE

14.2%

F

25.7%

F

85.8%

M

74.3%

M

LOWER MIDDLE

LOWER

28.1%

F

29.6%

F

71.9%

M

70.4%

M

BONUS PAY GAP 

CDW’s bonus pay gap, as defined by the
regulations, is reflective of the demographics
of our workforce.

PAY GAP

MEAN 59.7%      MEDIAN 56.3%

     (AVERAGE)               (MIDPOINT)

RECEIVERSHIP

MALE 52.6%      FEMALE 55.3%

CDW’s workforce is separated into divisions, 
and the gender ratios are as follows:

SALES,
SERVICES & 
OPERATIONS

NON-SALES 
ROLES

*This is based on a snapshot of April 5, 2017, as required by the regulations.

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Our Ongoing Efforts
We continue to examine how to create opportunities across our workforce. To that
end, we have several initiatives underway focused on training and development and
reviewing our workplace policies.  

Some examples of our initiatives include:

•  Utilising the UK Apprenticeship Levy in ways that support female participation.

The Levy enables training that can increase STEM skills development. Coworkers 
can apply for Levy funds to pursue qualifications or credentials that help them grow 
their career. And it gives CDW UK a way to hire promising people who may not have 
the necessary qualifications but can gain the relevant skills through Levy funding.

•  Supporting overall career development and increasing female representation in 

managerial and senior roles through a new program focused on personal skills
and branding, communication and general management training.

•  Ensuring coworkers have the support they need in their personal lives as well
as support when they return to work from leave. We are improving our carers
policies, including parental, paternity, adoptive, and shared maternity/adoptive 
leave policies. 

•  Encouraging coworkers to utilise our flexible working policy in accordance with 

business needs. We will continue to promote this policy to our coworkers to raise 
awareness. 

Though the makeup of our workforce influences the pay gap, we are dedicated to
current initiatives and programs to improve it. We are committed to doing our part to 
have more balanced gender representation among our coworkers.

I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate and has 
been completed in accordance with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap
Information) Regulations 2017.
Dan Laws
Dan Laws
Managing Director CDW UK & VP International

