Gender Pay Gap Report

Veolia is a leading resource management provider in the UK. 
We have a comprehensive range of waste, water and energy 
services that are designed to help our customers build the 
circular economy and preserve natural resources. 
The law requires companies with more than 250 employees to publish its gender  
pay gap by 4 April 2018. Veolia is a complex organisation with over 30 UK employing entities. 
Although only eight of these have more than 250 employees, we value all our employees, 
regardless of where they are employed. It is for this reason we have decided to go beyond our 
legal obligations and share our findings on all our gender pay gap information. 
This report sets out the combined gender pay gap information for employees of VES UK plc, 
Veolia Water UK Ltd, Veolia Energy UK plc, and their UK respective subsidiaries. In preparing 
the report, we have analysed pay and bonus data for more than 13,000 employees.

Gender pay gap highlights
Gender pay gap - Hourly rate of pay* 
A negative gender pay gap indicates that female employees 
are paid more on average than male employees.

– 5.5%
– 0.18%

Veolia

 All UK  

 Employers**

A positive gender pay gap indicates that male employees are 
paid more on average than female employees. 

+ 17.4%

+ 18.4%

Mean 
Median

What is the gender pay gap?
Quite simply, it’s the difference between the average hourly pay of 
women and men. It is not the same as equal pay, which compares a 
male and a female who work in the same or similar jobs, or carry out 
work of equal value. The gender pay gap looks at overall average pay 
based on gender, regardless of job role, geographic location, market 
forces, grade or other influences on rates of pay.

The median pay gap 
The median rate of pay is the middle salary, when average hourly 
rates of pay are ordered from lowest to highest. The median gender 
pay gap is the difference between the middle hourly rate of pay for 
men and women.
The mean pay gap 
The mean pay gap is the difference between average hourly earnings.

*These figures are based on relevant pay periods ending with April 2017.   **For comparison purposes, we have shown figures 
published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) on the gender pay gap reported in 2017 for all employees across the UK. 

Proportion of male and female employees by quartile pay bands*

Upper

Upper middle

Lower middle

 

Lower

  Male
Female

88%

12%

(Highest hourly rate)

87.6%

12.4%

89.98%

10.02%

85.54%

14.46%

(Lowest hourly rate)

Neither gender is over or under represented in any quartile when compared to the gender make up of our overall employee population. 

Approximately 

88% 

88%of our  
12%  

employees  
are male and 

are female*

Proportion of male and female  
employees receiving bonus pay*

Bonus pay  
gap (Mean)*

12% 

40.75% 

44.74% 

– 51.43%

This gap is due to the  
gender distribution of  
our workforce. A high 
 percentage are 
operational and by the 
nature of our business 
predominantly male.

Plans for 2018 and beyond

We are proud of our programmes to increase diversity and inclusivity and this 
report, which accurately depicts our gender pay gap helps to show we are 
heading in the right direction.
In 2017 we were recognised for our efforts in hiring more employees  
from diverse social backgrounds, including NEETs, ex-offenders and former  
military personnel by winning Veolia’s Global Social Initiatives award for  
Social Equity and Diversity. We are also advancing our apprenticeship,  
female-focused leadership and STEM programmes. 
My commitment is to ensure that these continue to improve the  
makeup of Veolia here in the UK and Ireland to ensure a successful  
and sustainable future for our workforce.

Estelle Brachlianoff 
Senior Executive Vice-President, UK and Ireland

