Gender Pay Gap Report

 

Introduction

 

Pay Gap Figures

 

Declaration

2  Table of contents

5	 Our	Gender	Pay	Gap	figures	

12  Declaration

3  Hello

4   Setting the scene

8	 What	do	our	Gender	Pay	figures	

say about us?

10  What is Landmark doing to 
address its gender pay gap?

Any questions?
If you have any questions regarding this Gender Pay Gap 
report, please contact our HR Director, Julia Lovell on: 
diversity@landmark.co.uk

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

2

Hello

Since 1995 Landmark Information has invested in its data, systems and, most importantly,  
our people and today we are proud to be the UK’s leading provider of property and land  
search information. 

At Landmark, we employ over 350 great people throughout the UK and Europe, with diverse roles in 
areas such as Customer Service, IT Development, Sales and Marketing, Systems Infrastructure, Project 
Management, Data, Product Management, Human Resources and Finance.

We always strive to recruit and retain talented people, but believe it is more than just knowledge and 
skills; it is the person behind the role that makes Landmark a workplace to be proud of. 

Everyone’s contribution plays an important part in all we produce, whether you are a Developer, 
Product Manager, Customer Services Advisor or work in our Finance team.  We recognise that having 
a diverse workforce makes us stronger when we combine a wide range of different knowledge, 
experience and points of view.

Gender is only one aspect of striving for a diverse workforce and this has always been a focus for 
Landmark along with providing a fair and equal environment for everyone.  

At Landmark Information, as of 5th April 2017, our workforce was made up of 68% males and 32% 
females. While this may be reflective of our industry, we acknowledge that there are actions we can 
take to address this balance.  We are committed to reviewing our approach to hiring, developing and 
supporting all of our staff with the goal of creating a diverse workplace where all employees irrelevant 
of gender, race, disability or sexual orientation can thrive.

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

3

Setting the scene

In April 2017, the government announced that it requires all UK companies with over 250 or more people to report 
on their Gender Pay Gap.  Landmark Information, part of Landmark Information Group, employs over 350 talented 
individuals and this report relates to this specific part of our business.  

The Gender Pay Gap is the difference between the average earnings of all male and female employees in the workforce. 
It is different from equal pay, which is ensuring that males and females receive equal pay and benefits for doing similar 
work or work of equal value.

At Landmark, we do not believe we have an equal pay issue and we ensure that everyone is paid the same for broadly 
similar work or work of equal value.  

We believe that everyone should be judged on their talent; gender is just one aspect of diversity and we are fully 
committed to a fair and equal environment for everyone.

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

4

Our Gender Pay Gap figures

The difference between male and female pay

Mean

28%

72%

Median

32%

22%

Hourly pay gap

Bonus pay gap

The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment

92%

Females

90%

Males

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

5

The proportion of males 
and females in each pay quartile

Females

Males

40%

60%

47%

53%

21%

79%

21%

79%

Lowest quartile

Second quartile

Third quartile

Highest quartile

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

6

What do our Gender Pay  
figures say about us?

Our organisation and our workforce are heavily technology focused, and as such 
we face the same challenges other companies of similar size with a STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Maths) focus do within our sector.  It is heavily male 
dominated and this is still evidenced in the educational choices made by today’s 
students.  This is not an excuse, and we accept the challenge of striving to bring about 
change and promote greater representation of women across all roles and particularly 
our leadership teams.  

When we further analyse our employee population we see that males dominate our 
IT and Sales sectors with more of a balance in Customer Service. Our HR, Compliance, 
Finance and Product teams have a greater proportion of females.

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

7

We have a more equal proportion of men and women at 
our entry level roles across technical, customer services, 
sales, and finance  and can assume that we are attracting 
and retaining men and women alike within these roles at 
Landmark. We also experience low levels of staff turnover 
and believe this reflects positively on our culture and 
working environment for all staff. 

8

23%

43%

77%

57%

Sales

Customer Service

21%

27%

79%

73%

IT

Finance, Compliance, 

HR & Product

Our pay quartiles show that we had 
fewer women in more senior highly 
paid positions and our gender pay gap 
figures reflect this.

We have a more equal proportion of 
men and women at our entry level roles 
across technical, customer services, 
sales, and finance  and can assume that 
we are attracting and retaining men and 
women alike within these entry level 
roles at Landmark.  We also experience 
low levels of staff turnover and believe 
this reflects positively on our culture and 
working environment for all staff.  

However, we know that in the past year 
we recruited 62 people of which 69% 
were male, 31% female. We believe this 
reflects that 71% of our vacancies were 
specifically in STEM related roles.

Females

Males

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

9

What is Landmark doing to 
address its gender pay gap?

We are committed to reducing our gender pay gap, however we feel that it is important to acknowledge that the pay gap 
cannot be closed overnight. 

A key factor in this will be the need to have greater female representation in STEM related roles, which will ultimately require 
an increase in females studying these subjects in education. We will continue to work with our recruitment partners to identify 
female STEM talent when roles are advertised.

From an IT internship perspective, we have two people confirmed for the summer of 2018, of which one is female. 

Salary is determined by role and closing the pay gap will require a long-term view.  We will continue to regularly monitor and 
carry out salary benchmarking across all roles to ensure we pay equitable salaries irrespective of gender.

We will look at personal training, development and career progression plans that aim to promote talented women within our 
business, as well as identifying opportunities to hire new female talent into our organisation at every opportunity.  

We continue to actively support all staff progress within Landmark Information, with the introduction of Job Families for our IT 
organisation being a great example of providing greater transparency around opportunities and the skills required to progress.  
We are very supportive of flexible working requests to either reduce working hours or vary work patterns where the role permits 
this.  We are open minded about how we can support our staff to create the working environment to maximise their  
full potential.

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

10

We recognise the importance that our management teams play in influencing our culture and drive for equality in all that we do.   
We have run a number of training sessions for our line managers, all of which are targeted at developing their leadership knowledge  
and skills to support our business and people.  All of our programmes have been developed to advocate and embrace diversity in all 
its guises.  

This year we also implemented a recruitment training program for our line managers to ensure their approach is consistent towards 
building a diverse workforce, unbiased in relation to gender and focussed on recruiting the right knowledge and skills for our business.

We feel it is important to consult with our people on this topic and will share our Gender Pay Gap results with all staff, inviting them to 
both contribute thoughts and suggestions on what we can do to improve our approach to addressing our imbalance.  

In addition to the above activities, we will continue to participate in appropriate networks and forums focused on diversity in its 
broadest possible meaning. 

We will continue to update our people on any initiatives in this area via our company briefings and email communications.

Declaration

This is our Landmark report for the snapshot date of 
5th April 2017 and the figures set out above have been 
calculated using the standard methodologies used in 
the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

I, Julia Lovell, HR Director, Landmark Information Group, 
confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.

Julia Lovell

Date: March 2018

Landmark Information Group  :  Gender Pay Gap Report

12

