FCE Bank plc 
Gender Pay Report 
For the 2017 Reporting Period 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Introduction  
 
FCE Bank has two sites in the UK; our Head Office in Warley, Essex which employs over 500 staff and our Manchester 
Business Centre, employing over 300 staff. Both of these sites are different in terms of available roles, for example, our 
more  senior  level  management  positions  are  based  at  our  Head  Office  in  Warley.  In  addition,  the  organisational 
demographics are very different. At our long-established Head Office the average tenure is 15 years, with an attrition rate 
of 4%, and in Manchester we have staff with an average of 5 years of service and a higher attrition rate (circa 15%). Across 
both sites we have a roughly equal split of male and female staff (47% female in Warley and 46% female in Manchester).   
 
Within FCE Bank we are committed to equal opportunities irrespective of gender or other protected characteristics, and 
want a diverse workforce that reflects our customers.  
 
FCE Bank offers a range of family-friendly policies to support staff within the organisation including up to 12 months’ 
occupational  maternity  pay  and  flexible  working.  Approximately  150  (20%)  of  our  staff  have  formal  flexible  working 
arrangements, of which 79% are female employees, as well as those staff who operate a more informal flexible working 
arrangement.  
 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
 
The Gender Pay Gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in absolute average earnings between women and 
men. For Gender Pay reporting purposes, two types of average figures are used:  
 

•  Mean average - calculated by adding all of the pay values up and dividing by the number of values in the list. 

•  Median average - calculated by listing all pay values in numerical order, and taking the middle number on the 

list (or a mean average of the middle two numbers if there is an even number of values).  

 
For each type of average, the percentage gap between women and men is calculated. A positive value reflects female 
employees having lower pay or bonus than male employees.  

 

 

 

Mean 

Median 

7.5% 
32.3% 

16.6% 
80.0% 

Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Gap 

 
Pay and Bonus Gap 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pay:  For FCE Bank in the UK, our mean gender pay gap is 16.6%, compared to the national mean average of 17.4% for 
both full and part time workers. Our median gender pay gap is 7.5%, compared to the national median average for both 
full and part time workers of 18.4%1.  Whilst this is a positive comparison against the national averages, we recognise that 
we have further to go.  
 
Bonus:  FCE Bank operates three different bonus schemes which are available to different population groups; “On the 
Spot” recognition awards of gift vouchers (up to the value of £50), our Manchester staff bonus scheme and our corporate 
management bonus plan (available to approximately 4% of our staff). The mean gender bonus gap of 80% is largely driven 
by the disproportionate number of male to female employees within our senior management grades who are eligible for 
our corporate management bonus plan.  
 
 
Equal Pay 
 
Gender Pay Gap reporting is different from Equal Pay. Equal Pay deals with the pay differences between men and women 
who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs, or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally because they are 
a man or a woman. 
 

                                                           
1 Office of National Statistics 2017 Figures 
 

FCE Bank is committed to treating employees fairly and we are confident that our male and female employees are paid 
equally for doing jobs of equal value. When we analyse our pay data within our job grading structure and contract types, 
our population weighted average shows we have a 0.23% pay lead for women.  
 
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus 
 
The charts below show the proportions of males and females receiving a bonus from one of the three bonus schemes in 
FCE Bank; “On the Spot” recognition awards, Manchester staff bonus scheme and our corporate management bonus 
plan.  
 

Male

46%

54%

Female

39%

61%

Received Bonus
Did Not Receive Bonus

Received Bonus
Did Not Receive Bonus

 
Proportion of males and females in each Pay Quartile  
 
The chart below shows the proportions of male and female employees in four quartile bands. The quartiles are determined 
by ranking all hourly pay from lowest to highest, and then dividing this into four equal number sections (or as close as 
possible to this).  
 

 

Gender Split by Pay Quartile

100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%

48%

52%

51%

49%

54%

46%

64%

36%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

Male %

Female %

 

 

 
What actions are we taking? 
 
We are taking steps to improve our gender pay gaps through building a talent pipeline that is more reflective of our 
workforce and customer base; for instance, 44% of roles in our first level management positions are now filled by women. 
However given our relatively low levels of staff turnover (in particular at our Warley Head office), the actions we are taking 
will take time to significantly alter our gender pay gap. 

 

In order to continue creating a more flexible and representative organisation, we are refreshing our Diversity and Inclusion 
strategy as part of our commitment to doing so.  
 
We will continue to work towards improving our gender pay gap by: 
 

Improving our recruitment targeting to ensure a diverse range of external applicants. 

1. 
2.  Ensuring senior level succession planning continues to focus on diversity considerations. 
3.  Enhancing our flexible working policy and approach to provide more support to managers to ensure that flexible 

working is encouraged and supported where possible. 

4.  Continuing the roll out of diversity and inclusion training, including unconscious bias training.  

