March 2018

1

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportMacmillan Cancer Support  
is the UK’s leading cancer support 
charity giving personal care and 
support to thousands of people 
with cancer every day. We are 
here to help people make sense 
of their diagnosis, guide them 
through treatment and provide 
support on every aspect of life, 
including; health, money, work  
and family.

We believe all employees should be able to make 
a difference to people with cancer by succeeding 
in their roles and accessing opportunities equally.  
To be there for everyone with cancer who needs 
us, we must attract, develop and reward a diverse 
workforce, and create an inclusive environment. 
Gender pay reporting helps us to achieve  
this goal. Ultimately, it provides us with the  
insight we need to make Macmillan a great  
place to work.

Beth, Personal Assistant

What is the gender pay gap? 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in average  
earnings between women and men across the organisation.
Gender pay is not the same as equal pay.
Equal Pay deals with the pay differences between men and  
women who carry out the same jobs or work of equal value.  

2

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportWhat is our gender pay gap? 
The Government now requires all organisations  
with more than 250 employees to publish their  
gender pay gap. We are legally required to publish 
the figures below on both our own website and  
a government website.

 1.  Our mean gender pay gap is 10.3%.  

This is the average if we add up all salaries and divide  
that figure by the number of employees. It shows us that,  
on average, the hourly rate men receive is 10.3% higher 
than the rate women receive. This is lower than  
the national mean of 17.4%.

 2.  Our median gender pay gap is 9.9%.  

This is the difference if we line up all the salaries and  
take the middle point. This is nearly half the national 
median of 18.4%.1

 3.  Our mean bonus gender gap is 0% 
4. Our median bonus gender pay is 0%
 5.  Our proportion of men receiving a bonus  

payment is 3.19% and women is 2.25% 
Bonus payments are not a significant aspect of our  
overall approach to pay. However, we do recognise 
exceptional work through our Recognition Award Scheme. 
Our Recognition Award is a one-off, fixed-amount payment 
which is open to all employees at all levels.

1.Mean gender pay gap

10.3%

National  
average1

17.4%

2.Median gender pay gap

9.9%

18.4%

3. Mean bonus gender pay gap

0%

0%

4. Median bonus gender pay gap

0%

0%

5. Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus

3.19%

2.25%

1 ONS Annual Survey for Hours and Earnings, April 2017

Men

Women

3

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap Report 6.  Our proportion of males and females in each  

pay quartile, as explained opposite. 

As part of the reporting process, we are required to divide  
all of our employees into four equal quarters – referred  
to as quartiles – based on salary amounts. 
When we analyse our pay gap by quartile, we can see  
that the percentage of women paid in the upper quartile  
(ie, those with the higher salary roles) steadily decreases  
from 79.5% to 67.4%. The percentage for men in that  
quartile increases from 20.5% to 32.6%. 
In total, 75% of employees at Macmillan are women. 

 6.  Our proportion of males and females  

in each pay quartile

20.5%

Lower Quartile

22.6%

Lower Middle Quartile

23.5%

Upper Middle Quartile

32.6%

Upper Quartiles 

79.5%

77.4%

76.5%

67.4%

Anna, IT Trainer

4

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportWhat does our gender pay gap tell us?
Macmillan has good representation of women in leadership 
roles. More than half our senior leaders, including our  
CEO Lynda Thomas, are women.
However, with a higher percentage of women in the lower 
quartile than the higher quartile of pay, we recognise  
that there is still work to be done at senior levels across  
the organisation. 
Our analysis has shown that the most significant factor  
in our gender pay gap is that, having benchmarked all  
our roles externally, some skill sets are paid at a higher 
salary due to external market pressures. In line with other 
organisations, we have a disproportionate number of men  
in technical roles that demand a higher market rate,  
for example in IT.
Many of these higher salary roles are also based in  
London where we have to pay higher rates to remain 
competitive within the market. If we exclude salaries  
in London, our gender pay gap drops to less than 1%.

‘ I’m proud of the many great examples 
showing how women have progressed 
their careers at Macmillan. I moved 
forward in my career thanks to 
Macmillan’s commitment to flexible 
working while I balanced work and 
family life. But we do have a gender 
pay gap of 9.9% and, whilst it is lower 
than the national average, I want  
us to do better. Our action plan sets 
out a clear path of change; we will 
be working hard to close our gender 
pay gap and create a positive and 
supportive work place with equal 
opportunity for all.’

Lynda Thomas, CEO

Joanna, HR Adviser

What does this mean?
These factors mean that although more of our employees are women, men  
are more likely to work in higher paid roles. This helps to explain why the  
average hourly rate is higher for men than it is for women at Macmillan.

5

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportHow will we reduce our gender pay gap?
While our average gender pay gap is lower than the national average, we believe that  
any gender pay gap is unacceptable and there is more that we can do. We are committed  
to reducing the gender pay gap and, as such, we pledge to take the following three actions:

1

We will maintain and develop  
 robust and fair policies,  
including those around pay

2

 We will attract and recruit  
more women into technical  
and senior roles

3 We will provide equal  

development opportunities  
for all

Macmillan is proud to offer a comprehensive  
set of family-friendly policies which support  
all our employees to balance their work and  
life commitments in a way that they choose.  
We will continue to promote and improve  
these policies. They currently cover:
•  enhanced shared parental leave,
•  enhanced maternity and adoption pay,
•  flexible working,
•  home and mobile working, and
• 

leave, including parental and carers leave.

To ensure salaries are fair and consistent we 
benchmark and evaluate the pay attached 
to roles both externally and internally using 
independent data.  By focusing on the role  
and not the person in this way, it supports us  
to avoid gender bias when agreeing pay with  
new or promoted employees.
We will review and monitor pay by gender 
within each pay level to promote consistency, 
and all our employees who are eligible will 
receive the same percentage level of annual 
salary increase from 2018. We are also proud 
to be a recognised Living Wage Employer.

We will continue to review how we attract 
applications from a wider group of people. 
We will look for ways to attract more women 
to apply for roles in areas where they are 
underrepresented. For example, we recently 
ran a recruitment campaign for senior roles 
to attract underrepresented candidates  
to our IT department.
Our managers with responsibility for 
recruitment complete training to support 
them to select fairly, and to understand the 
benefit of recruiting people with a diverse 
mix of experience and backgrounds. We 
will continue to improve and review our 
recruitment practices so that we can attract  
a broad range of people across all our roles. 
We will also expand our graduate 
programme and launch an apprenticeship 
scheme to specifically target groups 
of people who are underrepresented 
at Macmillan. By attracting talent into 
Macmillan early, we can nurture and 
grow our people through effective career 
planning, while continuously improving  
our diversity as an organisation.

We will design and launch a new approach 
to developing and promoting our most 
talented staff, and continue to broaden  
our learning and development offer 
to support all our employees to reach 
their potential. This will include tailored 
development programmes to support women 
to progress into the technical and senior roles 
where they are currently underrepresented.
With the appointment of our new Equality, 
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Officer,  
we will continue to deliver against our  
EDI strategy. This work will include  
creating a new EDI policy, offering  
specialist training for our people, and 
supporting our recruitment teams to  
focus specifically on Macmillan’s areas  
of underrepresentation, including women.

6

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportHow did we compile this gender pay gap report?
Our gender pay gap report was created in accordance 
with government guidelines and with support from  
a third-party provider.
Please be aware of the following points:
•  The report uses a data snapshot taken on 5 April 2017.
•  The total population as at the snapshot date was 1,840.
•  The current analysis is based on 1,771 relevant employees. 

69 individuals were excluded, as they were either casual 
workers where it was not possible to calculate an hourly 
rate of pay, or employees who were not in receipt  
of their normal pay, due to reasons such as being  
on maternity leave.

•  The data does not include volunteers or Macmillan 

professionals such as nurses, who are not employed  
by Macmillan, but partners such as the NHS.

•  Macmillan operates throughout the United Kingdom  

and has pay schemes that reflect national requirements,  
as well as additional market pressures in London and  
in specific areas of the organisation.

People Leadership team

7

Macmillan Cancer Support  Gender Pay Gap ReportYou may have cancer, but you are still you. Macmillan 
is here to help you live life no matter what. We’ll give 
you the support you need to hold on to who you are 
and what’s important to you.   
From the moment you’re diagnosed, for as long as you 
need us, you can lean on Macmillan. Call us free on 
0808 808 00 00 or visit macmillan.org.uk 
Life with cancer is still life – we’ll help you live it.

Macmillan Cancer Support, registered charity in England and Wales (261017), Scotland (SC039907) and the Isle of Man (604). 

