 
SMC Pneumatics (UK) Limited 
 
2017 Gender Pay Gap report 
 
At  SMC  we  treat  job  applicants  and  employees  equally.  We  believe  that  every  employee  should  be 
respected, their capabilities fully realised, with their character and individuality respected. 
 
 
Our Gender Pay Gap Data 
 
Hourly Rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bonus Percentage received 
 

Median 

Median 

32.4% 

35.8% 

69.8% 

68% 

Bonus 

Mean 

Mean 

Mean 

 

 

 

 

84.4% 
Men 

     83.1% 
    Female 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Salary Quartiles 
 
 

 

 

      Women 

 

 

 

 Men 

Upper Quartile

2%

Upper Middle Quartile

5%

Lower Middle Quartile

11%

98%

95%

89%

Lower Quartile

32%

68%

 
The Engineering workforce in the UK 
 
Our sector is predominately male and this is reflected in the ratio of men to women within SMC. 
Only 9% of the UK engineering workforce is female (see below).   
 

9% 

Women 

91% 
Men 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
At SMC, 12.5% of our population are women. The difference in hourly pay is reflective of that fact. 
 
In the top 2 salary quartiles of the organisation, only 0.3% of people are women.  The highest paid people 
are 96.5% men. 
 
We understand that our gender pay gap is largely due to the lack of women within the organisation and we 
are passionate about attracting more women to work in our sector and, in particular, at SMC. 
 
We work hard to ensure that our recruitment policies and procedures attract both men and women. 
 
We are confident that people are paid equally for all equivalent roles. 
 
Recruiting diverse talent 
 
To help ensure our workforce is representative of our communities and customers, we:- 
 

•  Are committed to building a strong pool of talent by investing in tomorrow’s workforce.     

• 

Form partnerships with many associations, such as colleges and universities.  

•  Participate in a wide range of activities to encourage more women into engineering. We work with a 

number of schools and are exploring numerous ways to further achieve our aim. 

 

 
 
Our Aim 
 
Our aim is to attract and recruit women to our organisation, and engineering in general, via gender neutral 
adverts, and engaging with schools and colleges to encourage young people to view engineering as a career 
option. 
 
In 2018, we will create a mentoring scheme for our less experienced female employees to enter a mentor  
programme with our accomplished female engineers and managers. 
 
We will also review our family policies, including flexible working, and continue to examine if there are ways 
to improve our working culture.  
 
I confirm that the data reported is accurate. 
 

 

……………………………………………………………. 
Signed by Kevin O’Carroll, Managing Director  
For and on behalf of SMC Pneumatics (UK) Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

