Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Introduction

Our industry is one of great importance to the British public and has been for many years. We 
are currently seeing the industry change at an amazing rate with new infrastructure available 
and more choice for customers travelling by rail. 

choice for Londoners by ensuring a safe, 
reliable and high-quality journey. 

transforming 

For  me, 
railway 
stretches  far  beyond  just  infrastructure 
and performance targets. 

the 

MTR  Crossrail  aims  to  actively  engage 
with  the  communities  that  it  serves, 
becoming an important partner rather 
than just a part of their daily commute. 
Moreover,  we  want  our  workforce 
delivering  this  fantastic  project  to  be 
inspired, 
diverse,  empowered  and 
and  most 
the 
communities in which we serve.

importantly, 

reflect 

Like  any  transformation,  we  know  this 
will  take  time  and  potentially  more  so 
in the rail industry which for so long has 
struggled to attract women but we are 
committed to seeing this change.

We  have  a  great  company  culture 
and  positive  relationships  with  our 
communities however, we know there 
is  still  work  to  do  but  I  am  confident 
and  excited  that  the  initiatives  we 
have  in  place  will  see  us  continue  to 
improve our gender balance, diversity 
and inclusion across the business.

I am proud to introduce our first gender 
pay  gap  report  which  outlines  some 
of  the  initiatives  we  are  also  carrying 
out to ensure we continue to focus on 
improving  diversity,  gender  balance 
and equality. 

Despite being a 
young company 
of just over three years, 
I am delighted to say 
that we have a female 
driver population of 
12.8%, which in light 
of the industry average 
of 6%, is a fantastic 
achievement.

Steve Murphy 

Managing Director

In  December  this  year,  the  Elizabeth 
line  will  open,  making  journeys  for 
Londoners  easier  than  they  have  ever 
been. 

We  at  MTR  Crossrail  will  operate  the 
Elizabeth  line  on  behalf  of  Transport 
for  London,  helping  to  transform  the 
railway and make it the travel mode of 

Understanding Gender Pay Gap 
Reporting
From April 2017, new legislation requires employers with 
more than 250 employees to publish their gender pay gap 
and gender bonus gap figures annually.

This legislation is intended to provide greater transparency in the difference 
in pay between men and women and to drive organisations to take steps to 
address any gender pay gaps they find. 

Sample data was collected on 5 April 2017 that considered the appropriate 
earnings for the reference period together with any bonus paid in the previous 
12 months. 

To  ensure  transparency  and  accurate  reporting,  MTR  Crossrail  enlisted  an 
external organisation, XpertHR, to analyse the data.

The figures below outline the mean gender pay gap and mean gender bonus 
gap for Private Sector Services, the category in which MTR Crossrail is included:

Private Sector Services - Mean Gender Pay & Bonus Gaps

Mean gender pay gap

Mean gender bonus gap

20.9%

30.9%

What is the gender pay gap?
The existence of a gender pay gap, should not be 
confused with the concept of Equal Pay. 

They are two separate issues:

Equal Pay

Gender Pay Gap

Equal  pay  means  that  men  and 
women  in  the  same  employment 
performing equal work must receive 
equal  pay,  as  set  out  in  the  Equality 
Act 2010.

The gender pay gap is the difference 
between the average earnings of men 
and  women  across  an  organisation; 
this can also be expressed across the 
employment market. 

The gender pay gap reflects the difference between the average earnings of men 
and women over a period, regardless of their role or seniority. Gender pay gap 
reporting summarises any pay differences between men and women on a wider 
level.  

Currently in Britain, there is an estimated, overall gender pay gap of 18.1%.   The 
reasons for the gender pay gap are varied and complex. A gender pay gap may 
occur for example where men and women are distributed unevenly across the 
workforce.  

If an organisation employs more women in lower paid types of work, they are likely 
to have a larger gender pay gap. 

The gender pay gap can be influenced by a range of socio-economic factors for 
example, women returning to work following career breaks, into lower paid and 
often, part time, jobs. 

This does not necessarily mean that there are unequal pay practices within the 
organisation.

Our Statistics

The infographic below outlines both the mean and median gender pay gap and 
the gender bonus gap within MTR Crossrail.

This data was collected on the 5 April 2017 and analysed by an external 
organisation, XpertHR.

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

16.7%

16.0%

Mean gender bonus gap

Median gender bonus gap 

23.5%

0.0%

 % of male 
employees 
receiving 

9.7%

% of female 
employees 
receiving 

 

9.7%

  Mean = average of all figures in data     

          Median = is the middle value of all data 

Currently in Britain there is an estimated 
gender pay gap of 18.1%

Proportion of males / females in each 
pay band quartile

This high-level data is split into four equally sized groups, known as quartiles. These 
are based on hourly pay rates, with Band A being the lowest paid group and Band D 
the highest.

The following tables show the percentage of male and female colleagues in each 
group:

Band A
Includes all employees 
whose standard 

  Males 75.2%
  Females 24.8%

Band C
Includes all employees 
whose standard hourly 
rate places them 

upper quartile

  Males 86.2%
  Females 13.8%

24.8%

%

75.2%

13.8%

%

86.2%

Band B
Includes all employees 
whose standard hourly 
rate places them above 
the lower quartile but 
at or below the median

  Males 81.2%
  Females 18.8%

Band D
Includes all employees 
whose standard 
hourly rate places 
them above the 

  Males 89.9%
  Females 10.1%

18.8%

%

81.2%

10.1%

%

89.9%

Whilst we have seen an increase in female representation across a number of 
levels in the organisation, since our inception, there is further work to be done.

Our Organisation

Our History

On the 30 July 2014, MTR Crossrail, a 100% 
owned  subsidiary  of  MTR  Corporation 
Limited,  was  awarded  the  concession  for 
operating  the  new  Elizabeth  line  services 
across  London.    Over  the  course  of  the 
concession,  the  MTR  Crossrail  family  will 
grow to operate the Elizabeth line through 
London, serving 41 stations, 700 services a 
day and 200 million journeys a year. 

As  a  rail  operator,  MTR  Crossrail  is  an 
organisation  that  values 
its  workforce, 
offering  career  progression  and  providing 
the  platform  for  people  to  grow  and 
develop.

communities  better 

MTR Crossrail aspire to set a new transport 
standard  for  the  UK,  moving  people  and 
connecting 
than 
anyone  else.  We  are  making  long-term 
improvements to our network and creating 
a  better  service  for  our  customers. We  are 
a trusted operator with proven experience 
and have a mission to enable our employees 
to reach their full potential 

As  an  employer,  we  are  committed  to 
equality  of  opportunity  in  all  areas  of 
employment  which  includes  recruitment, 
development and promotion.

In  order to understand our gender pay gap statistics, 
it’s important to understand some key points about our 
organisation:

The transport industry in which we operate has traditionally been a 
male dominated one. The rail industry is no different: at MTR Crossrail, 
83% of our workforce is male.

Like many transport companies, we have a lower proportion of female 
employees in senior roles and higher pay quartiles.  

We  have  traditionally  had  low  rates  of  job  applications  from  female 
candidates.

MTR Crossrail
Employee % 
 
by Gender
 
 

Males 83%
  
  Females 17%

17%

%

83%

8.6% of our female workforce work part time; this applies to only 1.3% of our male workforce.

Those in senior management positions have generally been recruited into the organisation with previous specialist 
industry experience which has been historically lacking in females.

Whilst we are succeeding at attracting females to traditionally male-dominated job roles, it takes time for them to 
train, become qualified and gain the experience necessary to progress into higher pay bands.

The majority of the candidate pool with specialist rail or technical qualifications required for high quartile positions is 
male-saturated meaning less females currently hold these specialist positions.

The most senior roles by their very nature generate a larger salary and annual bonus - this in part drives the imbalance 
in both gender pay and bonus pay gaps.

How We Are Addressing The Gap
Gender continues to form part of our inclusion strategy as we aim to reflect the communities we serve.

If  we  are  to  achieve  this,  we  must 
continue  the  work  we  have  started 
with  Women  in  Rail,  Working  Mums 
and  working  with 
and 
apprenticeships  to  encourage  women 
into rail and STEM industries. 

schools 

Women Returners Programme
MTR  Crossrail  continues  to  support  the 
Crisis  Women  Returners  pre-employment 
programme.

Women in Travel & Tourism, in conjunction 
with  Crisis,  have  launched  the  ‘Women 
Returners’  pre-employment  programme 
for  women  in  long-term  unemployment 
and/or have homelessness issues, that MTR 
Crossrail supports as a founding partner.

The  first  programme  commenced 
in 
January  2018  and  included  a  one-week 
training course as well as opportunities to 
meet various employers and gain interview 
experience. 

MTR  Crossrail  will  maintain  contact  with 
Women  in  Travel  &  Tourism  and  support 
interested 
the 
application  process  when  launching  the 
frontline Customer Experience recruitment 
campaign.

candidates 

through 

Women with Drive

Attraction and Development

MTR Crossrail is currently working to support 
the TfL Supplier Skills Team with the launch 
of a new pre-employment initiative, Women 
with Drive.

The initiative is aimed at women interested 
in a new career as a train or bus driver. The 
two-week  pre-employment  course  offers 
women an opportunity to develop their CV 
and improve interview skills, whilst boosting 
confidence  to  apply  for  trainee  driver  roles 
starting in 2018. 

Participants  will  gain  valuable  knowledge 
about  working  in  the  rail  sector  and  the 
role  of  a  driver.  Pre-employment  training  is 
provided by The College of Haringey, Enfield 
and North East London and will be followed 
by a two-week work-placement.

The  programme  is  supported  by  the  TfL 
Supplier  Skills  Team  who  will  provide 
support and guidance throughout and after 
completion of the programme. 

We aim to attract and retain the best candidates from the widest possible 
talent pool. We are carrying out the activities below to address the factors 
influencing our gender pay gaps:

Identifying and developing future female leaders as part of our talent 
and succession programme

Expanding our development programme and introducing mentoring 
schemes to show clear progression paths

Exploring increased pay transparency measures across all job roles

Ensuring gender-neutral language in our job adverts and  
descriptions

Reviewing our essential criteria for management job roles and  
supporting the use of transferable skills

 

Providing comprehensive unconscious bias training for hiring managers

Continuing to monitor our gender pay gap and activity

Continuing to recognise the work we are doing by submitting industry 
award submissions. In 2018 already we have been shortlisted for two 
diversity and inclusion awards

Continuing to advertise on specialist job boards aimed at women such  
as Women in Rail 

Using a video of a female driver on our job application page to help 
dispel any myths about driving

Summary

We will continue to review our policies 
and  practices,  building  upon  progress 
already made and continually work on 
our plan to address the gap. 

We  recognise  that  closing  our  gender 
pay gap will take time and may fluctuate 
given that the make-up of the workforce 
at all levels does not remain static. 

We are confident 
that our 

commitment to change, 
as demonstrated in the 
measures planned and 
being taken, will help 
us see greater gender 
balance across all levels 
of our organisation over 
time.

We  have 
introduced  a  number  of 
initiatives  within  MTR  Crossrail  with  a 
view  to  breaking  down  some  of  the 
barriers  and  perceptions  that  have 
traditionally  existed  within  the  railway 
industry.

We  have  carried  out  a  number  of 
successful driver recruitment campaigns 
targeted at attracting female candidates 
and  our  current  population  of  female 
drivers is a testament to this.

We have a committed team focussed on 
diversity in all areas, including women. 
We  are  actively  developing  initatives 
in  these  areas  to  address  our  gender 
pay  gap.  I  look  forward  to  seeing  the 
results  of  this  as  we  continue  to  strive 
towards  creating  a  diverse  workforce, 
fully representative of the communities 
we serve.

Alison Bell 
HR Director

For there to be little or no gender pay 
gap,  we  would  have  to  be  an  equal 
number of male and female employees 
in each quartile of our workforce. 

The rail industry has long been known 
as  a  male-dominated  environment, 
which  historically  has  failed  to  attract 
female applicants; with a workforce that 
is made up of 83% male employees, a 
gender pay gap was expected. 

