Winton Statement on Gender Pay  

Winton Capital Management Limited (‘Winton’) is a global investment management and data science firm. The 
following  tables  set  out  Winton’s  gender  pay  gap  disclosures  in  accordance  with  the  prescribed  calculation 
methodology  of  section  2(1)  of  The  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017.  The 
disclosures are based on data as at 5 April 2017.  

Winton’s business involves the application of statistical techniques to financial markets data in order to develop 
investment systems with a view to producing long‐term returns for investors. Accordingly, Winton’s most senior 
research, technology and investment management personnel come from science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (‘STEM’) academic and professional backgrounds. Proportionately low engagement by females in 
STEM subjects has created a predominantly male talent pool in STEM subjects and Winton’s gender pay data 
reflects this disparity.  

Winton is committed to equal pay for equal work. It is also committed to promoting gender equality in its business, 
and  to  encouraging  female  engagement  in  STEM  subjects  generally.  Winton  supports  a  number  of  external 
initiatives, including a partnership with Birkbeck, University of London aimed at developing female talent in STEM 
subjects, and the Conference for Undergraduate Women in Physics UK.  

Table 1: Hourly wage and bonus pay across Winton 

Positive figures indicate male employees receiving more than female employees. 

Hourly wage 

Total bonus pay 

Total % of males receiving bonus pay
Total % of females receiving bonus pay

Mean 
Median 
Mean 
Median 

Table 2: The proportion of female and male employees in each hourly wage band 

Quartile 1 (highest hourly wage band) 
Quartile 2 
Quartile 3 
Quartile 4 

Male
76%  
83%  
69%  
54%  

David Harding 
Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Co‐Chief Investment Officer 
Winton Capital Management Limited  
March 2018  

18.2% 
22.4% 
41.4% 
25.9% 

87% 
91% 

Female 
24%  
17%  
31%  
46%  

