 

 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Published February 2018 

 

 

Introduction   

The Royal Blind Group, comprising Royal Blind and Scottish War Blinded, promotes 
the inclusion and empowerment of people with vision impairment, and as such regards 
equality and fairness in all its respects as something that should be inherent in our 
service delivery, our staffing and our management and governance. 

Royal Blind is Scotland's largest vision impairment organisation. We care for, educate 
and employ blind and partially sighted people from across the UK. Our sister charity 
Scottish War Blinded supports anyone who has served in the Armed Forces who has a 
vision impairment, whether they lost their sight during or after service. 

 

Gender Pay Gap legislation introduced in April 2017 requires any UK organisation 
employing 250 or more employees to publicly report on its gender pay gap.  

The gender pay gap shows the difference in pay levels between men and women in 
the organisation, irrespective of the position held. This is different from equal pay, 
which is about ensuring that men and women are paid the same for doing equal work.  

The legislation only covers Royal Blind, but we chose to analyse and disclose 
information for Scottish War Blinded as well. Figures are reported separately for the 
two sister charities.  

This report fulfils our reporting requirements, provides context around gender pay in 
the Royal Blind Group and sets out what we are doing to address the gender pay gap 
in the organisation.  

 

Royal Blind Gender Pay Gap: 

We collected our data on 5 April 2017, when our workforce consisted of 425 relevant 
employees, out of which 343 (80.7%) were female and 82 (19.3%) were male. In 
common with the care and education profession as a whole, our organisation is mainly 
female.  

 

 

1 

Mean and Median gender pay gap 

Mean hourly rate for women: £12.47 

Median hourly rate for women: £11.57 

Mean hourly rate for men: £12.93 

Median hourly rate for men: £10.08 

Mean gender pay gap: 3.6% 

Median gender pay gap: -14.8% 

 
The mean gender pay gap shows that women in Royal Blind are paid 3.6% less than 
men. Mean hourly rate is calculated by adding all hourly rates and dividing this by the 
number of staff in the group.  

The median gender pay gap shows that women in Royal Blind are paid 14.8% more 
than men.  Median hourly rate is calculated by lining up all the hourly rates in the 
group from lowest to highest, and identifying the rate in the middle.  

The mean and median gender pay gap figures have been reached using the 
mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay gap reporting legislation.  

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile: 

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile

Men, 
29.9%

Women, 

70.1%

Men, 
15.1%

Women, 

84.9%

Upper middle quartile

Upper quartile 

Men, 
16.0%

Women, 
84.0%

Men, 
16.0%

Women, 

84.0%

Royal Blind do not pay bonuses, and the gender bonus gap is therefore 0%. 

 

 

 

 

2 

As our workforce is primarily female, women outnumber men in each pay quartile.  

The fact that there is a higher proportion of men in the lower quartile compared to each 
of the remaining three quartiles has an impact on our median gender pay gap sitting at   
–14.8%. The majority of men in the lower quartile work in Transcribing or Proofreading 
roles within our Scottish Braille Press service, which are paid less than qualified care, 
nursing or education posts within our other services. Although Scottish Braille Press 
overall employ more women than men, men employed within this service constitute 
45% of all male employees at Royal Blind. This compares to total Scottish Braille 
Press staffing comprising 20% of the Royal Blind workforce, and is linked to a distinct 
nature of this service.  

At 3.6%, our mean gender pay gap is much higher than the median, which is 
influenced by the fact that our Chief Executive and 40% of our Senior Management 
Team are male.  

We recognise however that with our male employees comprising only 19.3% of the 
total workforce, even small fluctuations can have a significant impact on our gender 
pay gap.  

 

 

Scottish War Blinded Gender Pay Gap 

On 5 April 2017 Scottish War Blinded workforce consisted of 38 relevant employees, 
out of which 24 (63.2%) were female and 14 (36.8%) were male.  

Scottish War Blinded has a higher proportion of male employees than Royal Blind, 
which is influenced by the fact that we support veterans, who are primarily male.   

Mean and Median gender pay gap 

Mean hourly rate for women: £13.71 

Median hourly rate for women: £14.25 

Mean hourly rate for men: £12.74 

Median hourly rate for men: £12.98 

Mean gender pay gap: -7.8% 

Median gender pay gap: -9.8% 

 

The above figures show that on average in Scottish War Blinded women are paid 
more than men.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile: 

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile

Women, 

55.6%

Men, 
44.4%

Men, 
40.0%

Women, 

60.0%

Upper middle quartile

Upper quartile 

Men, 
30.0%

Women, 

70.0%

Men, 
33.3%

Women, 

66.7%

 

 

Scottish War Blinded do not pay bonuses, and the gender bonus gap is therefore 0%. 

In line with the make-up of our workforce, women outnumber men in each pay quartile. 
The gender distribution is very similar across all four quartiles, with a slightly higher 
proportion of men in the two lower quartiles. Our staff numbers in Scottish War Blinded 
are however very low overall, so even small fluctuations can have a significant impact 
on our gender pay gap.  

It is also worth highlighting that Scottish War Blinded does not directly employ any 
corporate services staff, Head Office functions are provided by Royal Blind (this 
includes the Chief Executive for both charities, Finance, IT, HR, Marketing and 
Communications, Estates and Buildings).   

 

Overall, for both charities our figures compare favourably to the ONS statistics, which 
show a national gender pay gap for Scotland at 15.8% (mean) and 16.3% (median). 
We are confident that our employees are paid fairly and equally for the same or similar 
roles, and our equal pay statements are included in our 2017 Equality Status Report. 

 

 

4 

Actions 

The Royal Blind Group supports the fair treatment and reward of all staff irrespective 
of gender. We have pay and conditions of employment that do not discriminate 
unlawfully and are free from bias by ensuring that equal pay is in place for like work, 
work rated as equivalent and work of equal value.  

Pay system 

We operate a fair and transparent payscale system which ensures that the salary and 
conditions for each job relate to the title and description of that job and not to any 
characteristic of the person carrying it out. We pay all our staff the real Living wage (as 
recommended by the Living Wage Foundation) as a minimum. We regularly monitor 
staff pay to identify any pay differences and take targeted action where necessary. We 
have a Remuneration Policy which clearly sets out the rules for determining and 
reviewing staff pay. The policy and any updates are subject to the Board approval.   

Recruitment 

We will continue to ensure that our recruitment practices are transparent and fair. We 
will explore how we can attract more men into Royal Blind to create a more even 
gender balance – we recognise however that this is a broader challenge in the care 
and education sectors. As an equal opportunities employer we firmly believe in 
appointing the best candidate for the role, regardless of their gender or other protected 
characteristic.  

Family friendly support 

We offer a wide range of family friendly leave policies, which include enhanced pay for 
maternity, paternity, adoption and shared parental leave. Our Special Leave policy 
includes provisions for paid Time off for Dependants and Carers’ Leave. We support 
flexible working, and have over 50% of staff who work on a part-time basis. We try to 
accommodate staff requests for flexible working patterns where we can.  

Development opportunities 

We recognise that our staff don’t all want the same things from their careers, however, 
we aim to provide everyone with opportunities to be the best they can be and to 
progress, whether to more senior roles, or other opportunities within the organisation. 
To support this, we will continue to offer various development opportunities, such as 
funded professional qualification programmes (e.g. SVQ 3 or QTVI), or other 
opportunities to develop additional skills, whether through targeted training 
programmes (e.g. Braille Competency, Digital Skills, Supervision Skills) or internal 
personal development options (e.g. through leading a project or a working group). We 
are also planning to introduce a central learning and development function to ensure a 
consistent organisational approach to people development and to enhance support for 
all our services in their learning and development activity.  

 
 

 

5 

Equality forum 
 
We will continue operating our staff Equality Forum which acts as a reference panel to 
assess our policies and practices, progress against our equality objectives and to bring 
forward ideas which will help us improve equality in our employment practice. The 
Forum meets regularly and considers actions to improve equality in relation to all the 
protected characteristics, including gender equality.  
 
 
 
I confirm that the data reported is accurate 
 

 
Mark O’Donnell 
Chief Executive 

 

 

6 

