Buckinghamshire College Group Student portal Staff portal Online Store Vacancies Alumni News Student Blog College Calendar Open days Contact Our courses About us Student life Apply Apprenticeships Careers hub Other services Employers More Student portal Staff portal Online Store Vacancies Alumni News Student Blog College Calendar Open days Contact Equality and Diversity More in this section Vacancies Our Values, Our Culture Staff Benefits Staff Development Equality and Diversity New to the Area The College is committed to pursuing a policy of equality and diversity for all applicants, students and staff. We are continually improving employment practices to ensure all applicants receive full and fair consideration for all types of vacancies, as well as for training, career development and promotion. Disability Confident Disability Confident is a government scheme designed to encourage employers to recruit and retain disabled people and those with health conditions. The Disability Confident scheme has taken over from the previous Two Ticks Positive about Disabled People scheme. Imperial originally gained Two Ticks accreditation in April 2012, and Disability Confident broadens and deepens our existing commitment as an employer. As a Disability Confident employer, we have committed to the following actions: Actively looking to attract and recruit disabled people Providing a fully inclusive and accessible recruitment process Offering an interview to disabled people who meet the essential criteria for the job Being flexible when assessing people so disabled job applicants have the best opportunity to demonstrate that they can do the job Making reasonable adjustments as required Encouraging our suppliers and partner firms to be Disability Confident Ensuring employees have sufficient disability equality awareness Promoting a culture of being Disability Confident Supporting employees to manage their disabilities or health conditions Ensuring there are no barriers to the development and progression of disabled staff Ensuring managers are aware of how they can support staff who are sick or absent from work Valuing and listening to feedback from disabled staff Reviewing our Disability Confident self-assessment Investors in Diversity The Investors in Diversity Award is recognised as much more than just a highly prized and prestigious quality mark. It provides an all-encompassing methodology for improving Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) practices in the workplace. Those that achieve the Investors in Diversity Award have been enabled to take a structured and planned approach to embedding EDI at the heart of what they do. Mindful Employer Over 1.2 million people work for employers who are signatories to the Charter for Employers who are Positive about Mental Health. The Charter is just one part of the MINDFUL EMPLOYER initiative and is a voluntary agreement seeking to support employers in working within the spirit of its positive approach.  The College has signed up to the Charter and are continually working on ways to support members of our community for whom mental health is an issue. Gender Pay Reporting Recent Government legislation introduced a requirement for all organisations with over 250 employees to publish data in relation to gender and pay.   There is a requirement to publish this data on a central government portal as well as on our own website. Buckinghamshire College Group is committed to placing equality, diversity and inclusion at the centre of everything we do. Aylesbury College and Amersham & Wycombe College merged on 3 October 2017 and therefore the gender pay reports have been reported separately. The Pay Gap The following section shows the results of our analysis. We have followed the legislation and used the ACAS guide ‘managing gender pay reporting’ in coming to these conclusions. For context the Office for National Statistics calculated the pay gap for all employees across the country was 18.1% in 2016. The national figure in 2015 was 19.3%, whilst in 1997 it was 27.5%.  Both Aylesbury and Amersham & Wycombe’s results are considerably below that average. Aylesbury College’s ‘snapshot date’ of 31st March 2017 the results were: Women's hourly rate is 4.8% LOWER (mean) Calculation: Mean hourly rate of pay for all male full pay  relevant employees minus the mean hourly rate for all female  full pay relevant employees (the gap) expressed as a percentage of male mean hourly rate 19% LOWER (median) Calculation: Median hourly rate of pay for all male full pay relevant employees minus the median hourly rate for all female full pay relevant employees (the gap) expressed as a percentage of male median hourly rate Pay quartiles How many men and women are in each quarter of the College's payroll. Top quartile 30.7% MEN 69.3% WOMEN Upper middle quartile 52% MEN 48% WOMEN Lower middle quartile 17.3% MEN 82.7% WOMEN Lower quartile 29.3% MEN 70.7% WOMEN Notes: Looking at the larger groups of staff at the lower end of the pay scale the following is noted: 14 Apprentices 11 Female, 3 Male  27 Nursery Staff 27 Female 0 Male  38 Learning Support Staff 35 Female, 3 Male  Jobs graded at the lower end of the Pay Scales (in the Lower and Lower Middle Quartiles) are predominately held by women.  Reviewing the upper end of the pay scales College Management positions were held by 24 Females and 9 Males. Women's bonus pay is Calculation: Male mean bonus pay minus Female mean bonus  pay (the gap) expressed as a percentage of Male mean bonus pay 33.1% LOWER (mean) 93.6% LOWER (median) Who received bonus pay 8.2% OF MEN 4.4% OF WOMEN Number of women with bonuses        9 Number of men with bonuses             8 The bonus payments include 9 Employee of the Month awards of £100 (6 Female and 3 Male) which impacts upon the outcome. If Employee of the Month payments are excluded from the calculation, then the Mean gender pay gap in bonus pay is a negative figure of -22% which means that typically or overall male employees have lower bonuses than female employees. Some of the figures included in the bonus data relate to a bonus scheme for Assessors that has now ceased. The membership of the group that will no longer have a bonus is 75% male 25% female. Amersham & Wycombe College’s ‘snapshot date’ of 31st March 2017 the results were: Women's hourly rate is 11.4% LOWER (mean) Calculation: Mean hourly rate of pay for all male full pay relevant employees minus the mean hourly rate for all female full pay relevant employees (the gap) expressed as a percentage of male mean hourly rate . 16.3% LOWER (median) Calculation: Median hourly rate of pay for all male full pay relevant employees minus the median hourly rate for all female full pay relevant employees (the gap) expressed as a percentage of male median hourly rate. Pay quartiles How many men and women are in each quarter of the College's payroll. Top quartile 48.5% MEN 51.5% WOMEN Upper middle quartile 50.8% MEN 49.2% WOMEN Lower middle quartile 48.5% MEN 51.5% WOMEN Lower quartile 16.9% MEN 83.1% WOMEN Notes: Looking at the larger groups of staff at the lower end of the pay scale the following is noted: 54 Female, 11 Male  Jobs graded at the lower end of the Pay Scales (in the Lower Quartiles) are predominately held by women.  The Top, Upper Middle and Lower Middle quartiles are split evenly between men and women. Women's bonus pay is Calculation: Male mean bonus pay minus Female mean bonus  pay (the gap) expressed as a percentage of Male mean bonus pay -116.7% LOWER (mean) -300% LOWER (median) Who received bonus pay 2.8% OF MEN  5.8% OF WOMEN Number of women with bonuses        9 Number of men with bonuses             3 Isobel Ellison Executive Director Human Resources Useful links Equality and Diversity Policy Equality and Diversity Action Plan Corporate Information Cookie policy Site map © 2018 Buckinghamshire College Group Top ×