             Home About Us About Us Fresh Food Meet the team Our Suppliers Primary Primary Service The Dining Experience The Healthy Bunch Secondary Secondary Service The Dining Experience Food Cube i Love Coffee College College Service i Love Coffee Work For Us News Contact Us  Facebook Twitter LinkedIn 01252 819991 info@pabulum-catering.co.uk   Healthy school meals   Pabulum Catering is a professional catering company based in Fleet, Hampshire. We focus solely on the education sector, and provide tasty, nutritious and healthy school meals to children and students aged 4 to 18 years, at schools and colleges within 125 miles of our offices in Fleet, Hampshire. About us  We recognise the crucial role we play in shaping young people’s development with healthy school meals and nutritionally balanced dishes that bring fresh, locally sourced ingredients to the table.     We recognise the crucial role we play in shaping young people’s development with healthy school meals and nutritionally balanced dishes that bring fresh, locally sourced ingredients to the table. At the same time, we encourage them to take an interest in food and make informed choices, by providing varied and well thought-out menus, and an excellent dining room experience.   Primary schools    For primary school children, we provide tasty, healthy school meals every day, and help them begin to engage with food. The way we see it, mealtime should be yet another exciting part of their learning and development. Read more   Secondary schools    Pabulum brings a wide range of tastes, textures and flavours to the healthy school meals that secondary school students enjoy as part of their dining experience. We reflect high-street trends with our Food Court environment, and encourage young people to try new tastes and cuisines – with healthy school meals we create daily on site using fresh, seasonal and locally sourced ingredients. Read more   Colleges    We see it as our duty to support students at this crucial stage in their education. That means providing tasty, healthy and nutritionally balanced food at great value, but also reflecting high-street trends and busy lifestyles as they become young adults and prepare for higher education or employment. Read more    Our vision for healthy school meals To be at the forefront of improving the next generation’s health and well-being, by shaping the food culture in Education that inspires a passion and love of fresh food – without compromise.   Our enthusiasm drives the way we work, and we believe that by working together, and being open and transparent, we will build long-lasting relationships. We’re committed to sourcing ingredients that are fresh, wholesome and ethical, and to creating dishes that are a feast for the senses. We believe in the benefits of continuous staff development, and promoting healthy eating in a range of engaging ways. Our goal is to lead our industry by example as we continuously seek, implement and pioneer new ways to engage young people with fresh tasty food. Our Values The Pabulum team lives and breathes the company core values that inform everything we do:   Latest News    20th April 2018 Meet 2018       1st March 2018 World Book Day       8th February 2018 Welcome to Pabulum and our new website       22nd January 2018 Pabulum teams up with the Anaphylaxis Campaign       22nd January 2018 Pabulum wins Catey       View all news    © 2018 | Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Sitemap | Partners | Phone: 01252 819991 Website design and build by Liven Creative    