 

 

 

FCC Environment 
Services (UK) Ltd 
Gender Pay Gap 
Report – April 
2017 
 

 

 

What is the gender pay gap? 

From April 2017 the government has introduced gender pay gap reporting for all companies with 
more than 250 employees. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average hourly pay for men and women 
across all ages, roles and levels. 

It differs from equal pay which is the right for men and women to be paid at the same rate of pay 
for work of equivalent value. 

 

FCC Environment Services (UK) Ltd has a robust job evaluation process for all non-manual roles. 
This has enabled us to create a framework of pay ranges that avoids any gender bias.  

 

Manual roles are determined by local market job rates and TUPE transfers. However, all manual 
roles are paid a rate for the job regardless of gender. 

our 

 
 
 

Our overall workforce is predominantly male, which is typical 
within the waste, energy and water industry that consists of 
78%* men. We remain committed to improving gender 
balance, however with a long service workforce and transfer 
of employees into the business we recognise this will take 
time to change. 

 

 

 

*Source: Energy & Utility Skills Workforce renewal & Skills Strategy: 2020 
 

 

 

OUR STATISTICS AT A GLANCE – SNAPSHOT DATE OF 5 APRIL 2017 

 

 

TOTAL %  EMPLOYED 

MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP 

MEAN GENDER PAY GAP 

LOWER QUARTILE 

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE 

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE 

UPPER QUARTILE 

RECEIVED A BONUS IN THIS PERIOD 

MEDIAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP 

MEAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP 

PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES WHO 
RECEIVED BONUS 

MALE 

94.5% 

-1% 

-5% 

96.9% 

92.9% 

92.1% 

96.1% 

8% 

100% 

100% 

8% 

FEMALE 

5.5% 

IN FAVOUR 

IN FAVOUR 

3.1% 

7.1% 

7.9% 

3.9% 

0% 

0% 

0% 

0% 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Our figures explained 

 

 

Median and Mean gender pay gap 

The gender bonus gap is the difference between the average hourly pay received by men and women within FCC Environment 
Services (UK) Ltd as at 5 April 2017. We’re reporting two measures of our gender pay gap, the median and mean (average) 
gender pay gap. The median gender pay gap removes any influence of very high and very low pay. 

The national median is 18.4% in favour of men. This rises to 19.6% within the utilities sector of which we form part. 

Our figures show that both our median and mean hourly rates favour women in our workforce.  

This is because we have a higher proportion of women in non-manual support and technical roles within the business. These 
roles are typically paid higher than male dominated manual roles. 

Pay quartiles – how is pay distributed? 

The distribution of men and women is shown in pay quartiles which are calculated by splitting the whole workforce into four 
equal sized bands based on hourly pay, from highest to lowest. The percentage of men and women is calculated for each band. 

The proportion of women employed is 5.5%. The quartiles reflect the relatively small number of women employed within manual 
roles.  

What’s our bonus gap? 

for non-manual staff and  daily bonus schemes for contract based staff.  Daily schemes vary for each contract. 

  The gender bonus gap is the difference between the average bonus received by men and women across FCC Environment 
  Services (UK) Ltd at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017.    We operate two types of schemes – a group bonus scheme, which is 
 
 
  The snapshot date of 5 April 2017 only reflects those who received bonus during this reporting.  
 
  All females were paid a bonus outside of the snapshot date hence our figure showing 0% in this report. 
 
  During the snapshot date period 8% of males and 0% of females within the business were paid a bonus. Our median bonus 
  gender gap was therefore 100% in favour of men and our mean bonus gender pay gap was 100% in favour of men. We are 
 
  payment at some point during a calendar year. 

confident that we have equitable and fair schemes in place regardless of gender and the majority of employees receive a bonus 

 

 

This statement confirms that the published 
information is accurate and is signed by 

 

 

 

PAUL TAYLOR 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
FCC ENVIRONMENT SERVICES (UK) LTD 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

©FCC©FCC Environment Services (UK) Ltd 2018 

 
 
 

