5th April 2017 

 

Gender Pay Report 

 

 

 

 

Robertson Facilities 
Management – 
Gender Pay Report 

 

Snapshot date 5th April 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROBERTSON FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD 

  

1 

Gender Pay Report 

 

5th April 2017 

 

Robertson Facilities Management Ltd (part of Robertson Group Ltd) is required by law  to publish an annual 
gender pay gap report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017.  

Our pay gap results 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

The mean gender pay gap for Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is 28.89%. 
The median gender pay gap for Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is 14.36%. 
The mean gender bonus gap for Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is 81%. 
The median gender bonus gap for Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is 0. 
The proportion of male employees in Robertson Facilities Management Ltd  receiving a bonus is 6% 
and the proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 3%.  

Pay quartiles by gender  

Band  Males 

Females 

Description 

A 

11% 

89% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly  rate  places  them  at  or 

below the lower quartile 

B 

30% 

70% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

lower quartile but at or below the median 

C 

76% 

24% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

median but at or below the upper quartile 

D 

86% 

14% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

upper quartile 

The figures  set out above  have been calculated using the  standard  methodologies used  in the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

 

 

ROBERTSON FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD 

  

2 

Gender Pay Report 

 

5th April 2017 

 

What are the underlying causes of Robertson Facilities 
Management Ltd’s gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

the same or broadly similar work; 

• 
•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme;  
•  work of equal value. 

Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for  all  employees,  regardless  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age,  marriage  or  civil  partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity,  sexual  orientation,  gender  reassignment  or  disability.  It  has  a  clear  policy  of  paying 
employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out 
above). As such, it: 

• 
• 
• 

carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals; 
evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure; 
compares rates of pay across all roles with like for like in the industry.  

Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles 
in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract.   

We have 349 female employees and 359 male employees and are therefore confident that we employ equally 
across  the  organisation.  The  bulk  of  our  operational  roles  are  Cleaning,  Janitorial,  Domestic,  Catering  and 
Maintenance positions, the majority of which are filled by female employees, as we find that the flexible shifts 
are attractive to mostly female employees.  Our Senior and Management positions are held by both males and 
females; however, our Director positions are held by males.  

Around 115 of our operational staff, namely Cleaning and Janitorial staff are employed on term-time contracts 
of employment, meaning that the pay they receive does account for non-working weeks. We do believe this 
has created an artificially low hourly rate for those employees when running our calculations. Those employees 
are paid over and above national living wage rates and in line with Local Authority pay scales, therefore we 
believe there is not a gender pay issue, or one of low pay in these contracts.  

This  can  be  seen  above  in  the  table  depicting  pay  quartiles  by  gender.  This  shows  Robertson  Facilities 
Management’s  workforce  divided  into  four  equal-sized  groups  based  on  hourly  pay  rates,  with  Band  A 
including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% 
(the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men 
to women in each Band. However, within Robertson Facilities Management, 89% of the employees in Band A 
are  women  and  11%  men.  The  percentage  of  male  employees  increases  within  the  bands,  to  86%  of  male 
employees in Band D.   

 

 

 

ROBERTSON FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD 

  

3 

Gender Pay Report 

 

Bonus pay gap  

5th April 2017 

 

The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender bonus gap for Robertson Facilities Management Ltd are 
relatively large at 20 males receiving a bonus and 9 females.   

The proportion of men at Robertson Facilities Management who received a bonus in the 12 months up to 5 
April 2017 was 6%, while for women this was 3%. This reflects the higher proportion of men in the management 
and operational roles that, under our current policy, attract a business-related performance bonus. 

What is Robertson Facilities Management doing to address its 
gender pay gap? 

The  gender  pay  gap  compares  similarly  with  that  of  organisations  both  across  the  whole  UK  economy  and 
within  the  service  and  facilities  management  sector,  this  is  not  a  subject  about  which  Robertson  Facilities 
Management is complacent, and it is committed to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap.  

We are satisfied that the issue is one of female representation in higher-paying roles, rather than of equal pay 
for  equivalent  roles.  However,  the  majority  of  our  upper  quartile  roles  (encompassing  our  Executive,  Senior 
Leader  and  Leader  levels)  are  still  occupied  by  males.  However,  Robertson  Facilities  Management  Ltd  also 
recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas – it has, for example we have no direct control over the 
costs of contractual awards, and rates of pay inherited, particularly from PFI and PPP public sector contracts.   

In the coming year, Robertson Facilities Management Ltd is also committed to: 

• 
• 

reviewing its policy on bonus payments; 
encouraging our senior female managers to attend the Executive Women’s Leadership Development 
Programme- a partnership with Edinburgh University; 

•  where possible, in the local community areas where male representation is low, aim to attract males 

into operational roles; 

•  promote our diversity and inclusion strategy through active succession planning; 
•  where possible, closing the gap of our gender pay by reviewing our rates of pay in operational roles, 

to align closer to the Living Wage, where allowed.  

Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the company intranet. 

I, Derek Shewan, Chief Executive Officer, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

Signed 

29th March 2018 

 

 

ROBERTSON FACILITIES MANAGEMENT LTD 

  

4 

