Gender  
Pay Gap

Chief Executive Statement

The provision of efficient and effective sustainable communities and transport 
infrastructure is vital to the UK’s growth and economic prosperity. Our business 
activities are almost exclusively concentrated on delivering these infrastructure 
needs. The industry relies on skills that are becoming increasingly scarce, a situation 
exacerbated by an ageing and disproportionately male dominated workforce. 

Our business is a significant provider of these skills 
and expertise. We are committed to playing our part 
to attract all people from all backgrounds into what 
is a highly rewarding and creative industry.  We want 
to fully reflect the people and communities in which 
we work, not just because it feels like the right thing 
to do but because gender balance and diversity 
are inextricably linked with highly performing 
businesses. 

One of our five core values is “Openness” and our 
Mission is “Making you successful.” Sharing our 
Gender Pay Gap data is vital to raise awareness, 
highlight the need for change and identify creative 
ways to make that change. Making You Successful 
applies to everyone, our customers, our people, 
our suppliers and our business partners. To do this 
consistently we must all strive to provide a safe and 
inclusive working environment for everyone, where 
they can succeed and reach their full potential 
regardless of their gender, religion, ethnicity or 
beliefs. 

An example where we are making a difference is 
our work on the Fairness, Inclusion and Respect 
(FIR) agenda. We have committed to senior 
board representation on the FIR Industry Steering 
Group, invested in Small Medium Enterprise (SME) 
supplier FIR workshops and have our own trained 
FIR Ambassadors. Our FIR Ambassadors are fully 
engaged in our Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity 
(EDI) Strategy Team with senior business directors 
to actively shape the future direction of our EDI 
strategy.

We recognise that for a growing number of people, 
gender doesn’t simply refer to male or female. 
For the purposes of this report gender pay gap 
is calculated using the approach required by 
regulations, which compares the pay of males and 
females.            

I can confirm that the data in this report is accurate 
and meets Government regulations. The current 
nature of the male dominated industry we work in is 
reflected in our own overall results and I recognise 
that, as an industry and as a business, we have a lot 
of work to do.

2

Looking under the headline numbers I am 
encouraged that, for our people below the age 
of 40, the mean gender pay gap is 8.7%. This 
is significantly less than commonly quoted UK 
averages. In some of our business areas the gender 
pay gap is less than 4% and we will be looking at 
these areas of best practice and ascertaining how 
we can learn from these and make impactful gains 
elsewhere.  

Andy Steele

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapGroup People Director Statement

We recognise the value of a diverse and inclusive workforce and place great 
importance on the value of teamwork. Diverse teams are more creative, agile and 
flexible.  In our recent Engagement Survey our people told us that they valued 
working in teams highly and that this was one of the key reasons that they enjoy 
working at Osborne.  

The Fairness Inclusion and Respect (FIR) activity is 
essential; as we attract new diverse talent into the 
industry these individuals must experience a safe 
and welcoming environment where they are able to 
reach their full career potential. In addition this year a 
“Leading People Inclusively” Programme is in 
development providing further valuable learning 
materials.

Our overall results on page 5 are reported in 
accordance with stated Government requirements 
in relation to the number of employees, and 
therefore are for Geoffrey Osborne Limited business 
activities only. Whilst we collect and analyse the 
data related to other Osborne businesses, these are 
not included in the published figures because the 
number of employees is under the specified 
threshold.

We are committed to a diverse workforce at all 
levels and I believe we have made good progress, 
some of which is highlighted in this report. As an 
industry and as a company there is clearly far more 
work to be done. I am confident we are heading in 
the right direction and I look forward to reporting 
further on our own progress.

Sarah Taylor

We continue to work hard to encourage more 
women into careers in construction; from 
engagement in the early school years through trade 
apprenticeships, university sponsorships and mid-
career transfers. We have a good record of flexible 
working and remain determined to identify 
innovative approaches to support our employees in 
caring for their children, the elderly and dependant 
family members. 

We have also broadened our recruitment searches 
outside of our immediate industry sector and use 
gender neutral job adverts and seek to build a 
balanced shortlist of candidates. In addition our 
hiring managers have a programme of training to 
help eliminate unconscious bias and recognise the 
importance of a balanced and fair selection process.

There is much more to do but I am pleased to say 
we have increased the number of females across 
our business by 35% in the last year. It is also very 
encouraging that in the under 40 years of age 
category we have no gender mean pay gap across 
our Supervisory & Technical, Core Management and 
Senior Management Job Families. 

3

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapWhat is the Gender Pay Gap?

How are the median and mean gaps calculated?

A gender pay gap is a measure of 
the difference in the average pay of 
men and women – regardless of the 
nature of their work – across the same 
organisation, business sector, industry 
or the economy as a whole. It can be 
driven by the different number of men 
and women across all roles.

It is important to note that it is different from an 
equal pay comparison, which is direct comparison 
of two people or groups of people carrying out the 
same, similar or equivalent work.

One of the main reasons for the gender pay gap 
in our society is that men are more likely to be 
in senior roles. This is a particular issue in the 
construction and engineering industries which have 
traditionally been a male dominated environment.   

4

We use pay data from all our 
employees and apply the calculations 
set out in the gender pay gap reporting 
regulations. 

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference 
in average hourly pay between men and women. 
These median and mean calculations are also used 
to compare bonus pay over a twelve month period. 
We also report the proportion of men and women 
awarded any bonus pay over that period.

The pay data covers all roles and a wide variety of 
pay rates. To calculate the median gender pay gap, 
first we separate male and female employees and 
look at the salary of each person. If there were 999 
male employees the median male salary would be 
the salary of the 500th highest paid male employee. 
The median female salary would be calculated in a 
similar way. So, if there were 499 female employees 
the median would be the salary of the 250th highest 
paid female. 

The median gender pay gap is the difference in pay 
between the ‘median’ female employee and the 
‘median’ male employee. 

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

Median male avarage pay

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

The median 
gap is the 
difference 
between 
these two 

figures

Median female avarage pay

Pay quartiles:  nn Lower  nn Lower middle  nn Upper middle  nn Upper

Divided 
by total 

number of 

men

Divided 
by total 

number of 

women

The mean 
gap is the 
difference 
between 
these two 

figures

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

= (£) Mean male avarage pay

£

£

£

£

£

£

£

= (£) Mean female avarage pay

Pay Quartiles 

The report shows the percentage of men and 
women in each pay quartile. Quartiles are calculated 
by listing the rates of pay for each employee from 
lowest to highest. The list is split into four equal-
sized groups and the percentage of males and 
females in each group is reported.

Pay That is Included
Calculations are based on data from 5th April 2017, 
which includes normal pay and bonuses. Normal 
pay can include pay for leave and shift premiums. 
It excludes overtime, redundancy/termination of 
employment, pay in lieu of leave or the value of 
non-monetary benefits. Bonus pay includes profit 
sharing, productivity or performance related pay. 

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapAt a Glance – Our Figures Results

Pay quartiles
Proportion of male and female employees to quartile pay bands

100%

92%

90%

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

90%

82%

Males

Females

Pay Gap – Hourly Rate

52%

48%

Mean

36.0%

Median

34.2%

8%

10%

18%

Bonus Pay Gap – Hourly Rate

Top

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

Proportion who received bonus

Mean

80.2%

Median

75.8%

8.4%

5%

5

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapUnderstanding the picture under 40

To improve our understanding of the progress we have made we collated the 
data for our people under 40 years of age (38% of our workforce). In this segment 
our gender pay gap progress is particularly encouraging. The overall pay gap is 
less than half the quoted UK averages at 8.7%. We also categorise our individual 
business roles into five job families. In our under 40 collation we are delighted 
that in three job families (Supervisory & Technical, Core Management and Senior 
Management) there is no Gender Pay Gap whatsoever. 

Pay Hourly Rate

Mean 8.7%

Median 17.0%

Female Positive Gap

Bonus Hourly Rate

Female Positive Gap

0

0

Mean 17.6%

Median 0%

Male Positive Gap

Male Positive Gap

“This is about a People Strategy that is inspiring for our people and excellent for 
our Business.”

John Dowsett, Board Sponsor for EDI

6

Whilst recognising our business demographic 
the analysis of our under 40 years of age data 
is helping us understand how our early careers, 
searches, recruitment, selection and development 
programmes are impacting. 

It is particularly pleasing that for female colleagues 
in bonus earning related roles the data is evidencing 
that there is no gender pay gap. In fact our under 
40 mean data illustrates that we have reversed the 
bonus gender pay gap in favour of females and 
median data implying no bonus gender pay gap.

This gives us continued confidence that our people 
strategies are and will continue to impact and 
progressively improve our gender pay gap results. 
We recognise we need to continue to work hard 
and be more creative in identifying ways to grow 
and develop our female workforce, as we do with 
people from a much wider and diverse breadth of 
backgrounds and experiences.

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapUnderstanding our Gap (The detail behind the data)

Our 2017 pay gap at 36% (Mean) is above the generally quoted national averages for all organisations in the UK. The 
construction industry has historically been significantly male dominated and our own mix at senior levels in our business 
reflects this industry demographic. 

The data shows that 21% of our workforce is female 
and our wider analysis shows that the proportion 
of females generally decreases through the higher 
pay quartiles. Higher paid senior roles are typically 
held by males who typically have longer company 
service or longer careers and fall into an older 
demographic. 

Wider construction Industry figures indicate only 11% 
of the construction industry’s workforce is female. 
The industry collectively must do much more with 
government, schools and advisors to promote the 
rewarding careers construction and engineering can 
offer. 

We have made determined efforts to attract a 
growing number of females into our business. Since 
April 2017 (the stated reporting point) we have 
increased the number of our female workforce 
by 35%. The actions we have implemented 
have enabled us to double our proportion of 
female colleagues in comparison to the overall 
construction industry-wide statistics.            

Our analysis also tells us that the underrepresentation 
of females across the higher paid roles and the impact 
of male dominance in senior roles are the main drivers 
for our gender pay gap. 

This is evidenced in our data for those under 40 
years of age, where our mean gender pay gap is 
five times less than our over 40 group.          

Distribution by Job Family

Executive Management

 Females 
 Males

There are clearly no quick wins to closing the 
gender pay gap. It remains essential that we 
continue to attract and grow the proportion of 
female colleagues and place greater focus on 
supporting and developing our most talented 
females so they can compete successfully for  
our most senior roles. 

“The required actions are not 
about special treatment for 
under-represented groups; it is 
about fundamentally creating 
a workplace with an inclusive 
culture that values diversity in 
every sense”.

John Dowsett, Board Sponsor for EDI

Senior Management

Core Management

Supervisory & Technical

Operational Support

40%

20%

0

20%

40%

7

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapMaking a Difference

We know that our gender pay gap is driven by the structure of our workforce and 
the concentration of males in more senior positions, rather than our pay structure 
which is gender neutral by design. This has helped us to focus our efforts on 
attracting and recruiting more females, providing the best environment to retain 
them within our workforce and to progress our female talent into the most senior 
roles within the business. 

“We have to create a wider talent 
pool from which we can encourage 
people into the industry. This aligns 
with our Osborne culture, a culture 
underpinned by supporting and 
growing our people to generate a 
sustainable business with a lasting 
legacy.”

John Dowsett, Board Sponsor for EDI

8

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay GapInspiring Change

In the majority of job role families in our 
under 40 age category there is no mean 
gender pay gap in Osborne. We simply need 
to encourage more young women to enter 
this challenging and rewarding industry. I am 
confident in organisations like Osborne there 
will always be opportunity to progress into 
ever more demanding and senior business 
roles regardless of your gender. In my own 
experience being female has not limited 
my opportunities to develop and take on 
leadership roles and new challenges. I have 
also been supported and encouraged to 
take on wider roles and responsibilities. 

Simone Wyatt – Programme Commercial 
Manager

We are working hard to create environments 
that provide a safe and rewarding workplace 
for all. That way everyone has equal 
opportunities to prosper and fulfil their career 
potential. I volunteered to train as a Fairness 
Inclusion and Respect (FIR) Ambassador 
so that, with my FIR colleagues, we can help 
build a welcoming and inclusive working 
environment for everyone.

Ben Wilcox - Development Manager and FIR 
Ambassador 

I was mid-career, and to balance family 
commitments I was working in very different 
vocations and industries. What really 
appealed to me is that Osborne placed great 
emphasis on the cultural fit of the individual 
with their business culture. I felt valued, 
that my life skills were recognised and they 
were prepared to invest time and energy 
in coaching and re-training new skills that 
I and the business needed. I feel creating 
opportunities to progress a new career for 
people who may have had to prioritise family 
care will inspire many more life experienced 
women to build careers in our industry. 

Sally Jones – Marketing and Communications 
Co-ordinator  

9

Geoffrey Osborne Ltd. | Gender Pay Gaph e  next

T

