px group
gender pay report

report year: 2017

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

px group profile

px group provides operations management, engineering services and 
energy management solutions for partners in high hazard, highly 
regulated industries.

We operate 24 hours, 7 days a week across a range of sectors 
including power generation, gas processing and renewables. 

For more information visit us at www.pxlimited.com

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

what is a gender pay gap ?

A gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay and bonuses of all men 
and all women across an organisation.

From 2017, any organisation with 250 or more employees is required to publish details 
of their gender pay statistics including:

•

•

•

gender pay and bonus gaps

the percentage of men and women receiving a bonus

the proportion of men and women in each earnings quartile of the workforce

The analysis is based on data as at 5th April each year with the first reporting period 
ending April 2017.

Gender pay is different to ‘equal pay’. Equal pay regulations require that men and 
woman who carry out the same or similar jobs, or work of equal value, are paid the 
same and px group is committed to ensuring equal pay is awarded for equal work.

px group will publish its gender pay gap results on GOV.uk as well as the px group 
website.

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

px group - workforce demographics

•

•

•

As at April 2017 px group operated 11 
sites including its headquarters based 
in Stockton-on-Tees.

The demographic of its workforce 
was 84.5% male and 15.5% female for 
the reporting period.

A contributing factor to the high 
population of male employees is a 
result of men traditionally 
dominating the shift working power, 
oil & gas and chemical sectors we 
operate in, exacerbated by the high 
levels of staff retention recorded 
within px group.

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

px Group - Workforce Demographic

Male - 84.5%

Female - 15.5%

what does px group gender pay profile look like ?

•

•

px group does have a gender pay gap when we compare the overall average hourly 
pay and bonuses for women and men and we will seek to address this.

In line with government requirements px group reported the following gender pay 
measures for the year ending April 2017.

Pay Gap

Bonus Pay Gap

Mean *

Median *

37%

46%

38%

36%

*Mean – is the average of a list of numbers

*Median – is the middle value in all of the numbers listed in numerical order

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

the percentage of men & women awarded a bonus

In terms of bonus payments made in the 12 months preceding the snapshot date, the 
chart below shows that 93% of males received a bonus payment, whereas 96% of 
females received a bonus payment.

Males Receiving a Bonus

Females Receiving a Bonus

Bonus Received - 93%

Bonus Not Received - 7%

Bonus received - 96%

Bonus not Received - 4%

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

gender distribution per earning quartile

The table below shows the gender distribution across four equal sized earnings 
quartiles within the organisation. 

In px group there are more men in the most senior, higher paying roles within the 
organisation, this being a legacy of the traditionally male orientated operational 
sectors we operate in.

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

px group - closing the gender pay gap

px group recognises there is a gender pay gap across the organisation and is fully committed to closing the gap via a 
number of strategies and initiatives which include:

•

•

•

•

•

•

Continuing the success we have achieved through female Apprenticeships and representation on Apprentice 
steering groups.

Working with local schools, universities and careers services and sector bodies to provide work experience, talks 
and assemblies on learning and career pathways in the energy industry and in STEM subjects.

Promotion of flexible working, shared parental leave and parental leave to help retain and attract employees.

Continuing our commitment to recruit on merit in line with job role requirements, along with developing 
further attraction and selection activities to be inclusive.

Ongoing review, benchmarking and development of our equality policy, salaries, pay principles and strategy to 
increase inclusiveness and ensure we attract the best candidates and retain employees.

The strengthening of current succession and career planning activities, to ensure consistency of opportunity, 
training and development to all.

I can confirm that the data contained within this report is accurate.

Mark Kenrick, CEO – px group.
27th March 2018

px group | it’s our people that make the difference

