UK Gender Pay Gap
Report 2018

COMMENTS FROM LEADERS IN UK

02

Wiley is committed to improving our gender pay gap. 
We take this responsibility seriously and are introducing 
a series of actions to narrow the gap. We value the 
people we work with and want to see everyone succeed 
by focusing on equal opportunities, development, and 
achievement.

Brian Napack
President & Chief Executive Officer

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018Executive
Leadership

About Wiley

03

•  Brian A. Napack - President and 

Chief Executive Officer, John 
Wiley & Sons, Inc. and Member 
of the Board
John Kritzmacher - Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive 
Vice President, Technology and 
Operations

• 

• 

•  Ella Balagula - Executive Vice 

President and General Manager, 
Knowledge & Learning
Judy Verses - Executive Vice 
President and General Manager, 
Research

•  Georgios Papadopoulos - 

President, Atypon Systems, LLC
•  Archana Singh - Executive Vice 

President and Chief Human 
Resources Officer

•  Clay Stobaugh - Executive Vice 
President, Government Affairs, 
and Chief Marketing Officer

•  Gary M. Rinck - Executive Vice 

President, General Counsel

•  Wiley, a global research and learning company, 

helps people and organizations develop the skills 
and knowledge they need to succeed 

•  Our online scientific, technical, medical, and 
scholarly journals, combined with our digital 
learning, assessment, and certification solutions, 
help universities, learned societies, businesses, 
governments, and individuals increase the 
academic and professional impact of their work

•  Our corporate headquarters are located in 

Hoboken, New Jersey, USA with offices in over 30 
countries worldwide

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018Understanding the  
UK Gender Pay Gap
•  Employers with 250 or more 

employees must report   
annually to the UK Government, 
and publicise their gender pay 
gap metrics

•  The regulation requires 

employers to publish their 
Gender Pay Gap data annually, 
based on the hourly pay of all 
employees in the April payroll

•  The gender pay gap is not 

the same as equal pay and is 
a simple average figure for 
all employees within the UK 
workforce, irrespective of the job 
they do

•  Employers are also required 
to publish the bonus pay gap, 
which is based on bonuses 
paid between 6 April 2016 and            
5 April 2017

A few words 
from our Human 
Resources Director

We welcome the UK Government’s introduction of the Gender 
Pay Gap reporting legislation. We are a company dedicated 
to incorporating inclusion and diversity, as well as fairness 
in compensation. I am personally committed to creating a 
working environment that enables all of us to flourish.

As the Report covers only our UK employees – 18% of our total 
workforce – we are reporting only on a subsection of Wiley’s 
global business.

Charlotte Hussein
Director Human Resources, UK

Analysis of Gender 
Pay Gap in the UK

•  Gender pay gap data is based on 

the hourly pay (basic salary) of 
all employees in the April 2017 
payroll

•  Gender bonus gap data includes 
annual bonus/sales incentive and 
long term equity compensation 
paid between 6 April 2016 and 5 
April 2017

•  Our mean and median bonus 
gaps are driven by our highest 
earners, who are predominantly 
male

Wiley’s Gender Pay Gap Results

05

Difference between men and women
Gender Pay Gap
Gender Bonus Gap

Mean Median
21.1% 21.5%
42.3% 50.7%

The Mean is the average 
number when you take all 
employees into account. 
The Median is the middle value 
within a data set, sorted from 
smallest to largest.

Proportion of men and 
women receiving a 
bonus payment

79.3%

84.5%

Distribution of men 
and women in pay 
quartiles, calculated 
using the range of 
hourly pay

Female

Male

66.1%

70%

33.9%

30%

Lower 
Quartile

66.8%

Lower Middle 

Quartile

44.2%

33.2%

55.8%

Upper Middle 

Quartile

Upper 
Quartile

The four quartiles are sorted 
by dividing the UK population’s 
salary, from lowest to highest, 
into four equal groups, allowing 
for the measurement of men 
and women within each group.

Female Male

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018Next Steps

06

•  Establish a working group to understand the drivers of the gender pay gap
•  Hire an external consultant to guide the working group on developing a 

proactive plan for Wiley’s gender balance

•  Encourage employees to focus on their personal development and identify 

growth opportunities

•  Implement a global initiative to enhance the talent pipeline and 

opportunities for directors and above

•  Continue to partner with other publishers to advance the conversation on 

this important topic

•  Commit to ongoing support for our community groups such as Generation 
Wiley, Lean In, and LGBT to ensure that a rich, open culture thrives at Wiley

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018Commitment from 
Executive Leadership

07

Having recently joined Wiley, there were two key factors that 
attracted me to the company. The first is how passionate 
and committed colleagues are to their jobs; and the 
second is that 85% of the company’s revenue comes from 
businesses led by women, myself and Judy Verses. I strongly 
believe in supporting talented female employees at all levels 
of the organisation. 
As a leader in the knowledge and learning space, Wiley has 
an exciting opportunity to encourage female engagement in 
STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths), and I 
am proud to promote these opportunities to young people 
of all genders.   

As a global leader who spends a significant proportion of my 
time in the UK, I am invigorated by the strong female leadership 
based here.  I believe that Wiley is uniquely placed with so 
many women at the early and mid stage of their careers, and it 
is my responsibility, together with the leadership team, to build 
on this talent to enhance diversity and inclusion at the top of 
the organisation. 

I am committed to fostering a culture of impactful change, 
ensuring that both women and men are fulfilling their potential, 
whatever role they are in.

Ella Balagula 
Executive Vice President, Knowledge & Learning

Judy Verses
Executive Vice President, Research

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018Commitment from
Executive Leadership

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018 08

It is critical for us to understand what the data is telling us to inform the key steps that we 
will take in next three months.
From here, we have to do the things that matter the most: support women and men with 
their ongoing career growth; adapt organizational practices to promote flexibility across 
key geographies; and, engage with all of our leaders in problem solving this together. 
As a global company with our largest businesses being run by women leaders, and having 
presence of senior women leaders at the Board level, I feel confident that we can continue 
to focus on this important topic.

Archana Singh
Executive Vice President & Chief Human Resources Officer

UK Leadership
Comments

09

Very early on in my Wiley career I was given the chance by a 
supportive manager to step into a first level of management role. 
Ever since, I have had huge satisfaction seeing people join the 
team at a lower level, and then supporting them in their growth 
and development, to see them rise through the company. 

As the regional leader, I want to play a part in ensuring that all 
employees, regardless of gender, have the same opportunities 
for advancement within the organisation and receive adequate 
support and encouragement to do so. I want to offer as much 
help as I can to any working groups set up to address this issue 
and to ensure that this work is made as transparent as possible. 

I have enjoyed the support of a succession of empowering 
managers and mentors who have encouraged me throughout 
my career and put me forward to participate in initiatives that 
have stretched and expanded my professional experience. Now 
that I am in a senior position, I would like to return the favour by 
enabling my team to develop.

It’s time to address the gender pay gap, and I believe that a 
company like Wiley – with our history and the values that we 
espouse – can lead the way in our industry with a clear, actionable 
plan. I would also like to be involved directly in helping both 
women and men at Wiley progress their careers to higher levels. 

Karen Wootton
VP Sales EMEA, and UK co-Regional Leader

Ben Townsend
VP Sales EMEA & APAC, and UK co-Regional Leader

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018UK Leadership
Comments

As a leader, the most important thing I do is to make sure that my 
team and I appoint the best people within our business. In turn, 
we support our teams to the best of our abilities so that they can 
realise opportunities and create success for Wiley.
To me, equality (gender and beyond) makes sense because it 
creates an environment where everyone can be the best without 
having to justify any bias. The results will be stronger, more 
successful communities, organisations, countries.

Miriam Maus
VP, Editorial Management

Declaration

10

We confirm that our data has been calculated 
according to the requirements of The Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.
 

Ursula D’Arcy 
Vice President &  
Assistant Corporate Controller,  
and Director, Wiley, UK

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018