Cisco UK Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

 

What Does Pay Parity Mean to Cisco? 

Cisco believes that understanding and taking into account 
relevant business information is critical to understanding 
whether people are paid fairly within an organisation. That’s 
why ‘‘pay parity’’ at Cisco means that Cisco’s people are 
paid fairly - regardless of gender - based on roles, location, 
prior work experience, performance and other business 
relevant factors. Cisco’s philosophy seeks to understand 
pay differences among employees doing similar work and 
address where necessary. We have now completed two 
cycles of global pay review including in the UK, both of 
which revealed a healthy and fair pay practice. The first pay 
parity review resulted in Cisco making minor adjustments to 
less than 0.3% of our UK employee population to bring 
them in alignment with their peers, whilst the second and 
just recently completed analysis resulted in no further parity 
based pay adjustments. 

As discussed below, Cisco has proactively made  efforts to 
address this issue as well as ensure that more women are 
entering Cisco’s workforce at all levels. 

 

 

 
 

 

Overview 

Cisco’s success depends on our people feeling inspired by 
their jobs and fulfilled in their careers. We believe strongly 
in the power of diverse thinking and support an inclusive 
culture, embracing and harnessing the talents of all of our 
employees. Our inclusive culture helps build a trusting 
environment that drives the best teams, allows us to retain 
the best talent, and positions Cisco as a top employer. 

What is Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
(GPGR)? 

The Gender Pay Gap Reporting legislation requires 
employers in the UK with 250 or more employees to 
publish calculations every year showing the pay gap 
between their male and female employees. A pay gap 
identified through this reporting process shows a very 
broad overview of a gender pay comparison across the 
organisation without considering the actual work 
performed by the employees, their level or work history in 
and out of Cisco. GPGR, while effective at placing a 
spotlight on an important industry and cultural issue, does 
not help companies, or external parties, understand 
whether men and women, within an organisation, are paid 
fairly for doing similar work. 

 

 

 

 

© 2018 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public. 

The Gender Pay Gap Reporting Numbers 

 

 

 

 

To put our Gender Pay Gap in to context, it is useful to look 
at these data points. The Office for National Statistics in 
2016 stated the Gender Pay Gap in the UK was a median of 
18.1% and Mercer in 2017 stated the technology sector 
Gender Pay Gap was 25%. These numbers do not take into 
account grade/level. 

Cisco Mean & Median Bonus Pay gap and the percent of 
Cisco employees receiving a bonus in past 12 months. 
For the purposes of this analysis, a bonus is defined as 
any cash payment over and above the base salary. 

  

 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

© 2018 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public. 

 

 
 

 

What Do We Believe Contributes to Our 
Gender Pay Gap? 

What Actions Are We Taking to Close the 
Gap? 

While Gender Pay Gap Reporting could help illuminate 
issues of pay fairness, Cisco believes that the focus 
should be on ensuring diverse representation across all 
levels of our organisation. There has been a longstanding 
issue of female representation at the higher levels of 
organisations and higher paid roles across many industries. 
The tech sector is no different. Our own pay parity review 
shows that people are paid fairly for the jobs they do, but 
we do have a higher representation of men in the higher 
paying roles (and roles with higher variable pay, which 
amplifies the difference for the bonus pay gap number 
above) which accounts for our gender pay gap using the 
GPGR methodology. Although Cisco’s pay gap is not as 
high as the Tech or UK average, our results show we have 
more work to do in the representation of women in all 
grades and particularly in more senior grades. 

How Has Cisco Made Progress Addressing 
Diverse Representation in its Workforce? 

Like many of our peers in technology, Cisco does not have 
an even distribution of males and females across all jobs 
and levels. We are investing in programmes to attract 
diverse candidates as well as build the next generation of 
potential employees. In the UK, we have seen progress 
over the past three years with regards to our female 
representation in the organisation including: 

 

• 
• 

•  A 3% growth in our female population 
•  An increase of 3% on female promotions 
•  An 8% increase in female external hires with more 

being hired into higher paying jobs. 
Improvement in our female retention 
In addition, in the latest UK Great Place to Work 
survey, our female employees state they are more 
satisfied on all major dimensions. Of particular note, 
our female employees are significantly more likely 
than male colleagues to tell us that they have a good 
work-life balance, they can fulfil their career 
aspirations with us and they are developing 
professionally with us. 

To be the most important and trusted technology partner in 
the world, we know we must have a diverse and inclusive 
global workforce committed to technology innovation that 
connects us all. We strive to build a workforce that reflects 
our society and has a broad range of backgrounds - whether 
it be women in technology, people with disabilities or 
multicultural men and women to name a few. As part of our 
commitment to having a diverse and inclusive workforce, we 
already have a number of programmes in place focused 
specifically on our female employees, including the 
following: 

•  Cisco is a proud partner of the prestigious 30% Club 

which is committed to better gender balance at all 
levels of organisations. 

•  Accelerating diversity starts with the ways we find and 

attract extraordinary talent. Our Diverse Talent 
Accelerators suite of solutions provides us with 
powerful analytics we can use to more accurately map 
the talent market and adjust our searches to target 
diverse candidates. 

•  Cisco’s DARE (Development, Authenticity, Readiness, 

Excellence) Women’s Development Programme 
addresses the needs of women early in career. 

•  Cisco’s JUMP training programme aims to develop 

world- class, next-generation women leaders, 
broaden our pipeline of diverse talent and accelerate 
closing the gender gap in leadership. 

•  Connected Women and WISE (Women in Science and 

Engineering) are global employee communities, with 
UK representation and participation. They build 
community within Cisco, share best practices and 
learning and help attract, develop, retain and celebrate 
talented women as part of a competitive and diverse 
workforce. 

•  Cisco is a corporate subscriber to Women on Boards 
UK (WOB). Women on Boards' focus is to encourage, 
inspire and actively support women - from all sectors 
- to find their own pathway to the boardroom. 

•  Our Pathway To Your Future programme offers 16-
18 year old girls the opportunity to join us for four 
days of exploring the diverse range of careers 
available the technology industry. 

•  Cisco also supports Girls in ICT Day, encouraging girls 
aged 13-18 to consider education and career paths in 
STEM. 

 

© 2018 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public. 

Ongoing Commitment 

We’re expanding how we think about fairness and leading 
a new dialogue on the possibilities we can create in this 
era of digital transformation - for Cisco, our people, our 
partners and our customers. We call this thought 
leadership dialogue the ‘‘Future of Fairness’’. 

Pay Parity and the programmes discussed here are 
examples of Cisco’s ongoing commitment to Fairness. 
That’s the Future of Fairness in action. 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

‘‘Diverse teams bring diversity of thought and a more 
inclusive culture; this creates an environment where the 
best people can be at their best. We know that our edge 
comes from our people, so we focus on ensuring that 
everyone who works for Cisco is paid fairly for the job that 
they do regardless of gender; we regularly conduct pay 
parity reviews based on roles, location, prior work 
experience, performance and other business relevant 
factors. 

Like many of our peers in technology, Cisco does not have 
an even distribution of men and women across all jobs and 
levels, which contributes to the difference in pay shown in 
the UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting. For a number of years, 
we have been investing in programmes to not only attract 
and retain diverse candidates throughout our organisation, 
but to help encourage more diversity in the industry. 
Everyone has the opportunity to make small choices today, 
to help make a long term difference. 

Our Gender Pay Gap figures have been calculated in line 
with the regulations set out in the Gender Pay Gap 
reporting legislation. The calculation methodology has 
been checked and approved by our lawyers. I confirm that 
these figures have been verified and are accurate.’’ 

Scot Gardner, 
Chief Executive UK and Ireland 
at Cisco International Limited 

Americas Headquarters 
Cisco Systems, Inc. 
San Jose, CA 

Asia Pacific Headquarters 
Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. 
Singapore 

 

Europe Headquarters 
Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands 

Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco Website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. 

Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to 
this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a 
partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (1110R)  051017V6 

© 2018 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco Public. 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

