Gender Pay Reporting 

International  SOS  supports  the  Government’s  objective  in  introducing  the  new  gender  pay  gap  reporting.  On  3  April  2018  we 
reported our pay gap information for the year ending April 2017.   

For the majority of employees, including frontline, junior and middle management at International SOS Assistance Ltd there is no 
gender pay gap. In our organisation where we have male and female employees doing the same role, there is no gender pay gap. 
However, where the gender pay gap statistics do highlight a gap is among the most senior 25% of London employees. London is 
the home for many of our senior regional and group executives and a high percentage of these roles are filled by male employees. 
As a company we are committed to addressing this imbalance and this is where our focus is being placed. 

We have already put in place programmes and policies so that an increasing number of our senior roles are filled by women. And 
here we are making progress. As an example, in the Northern Europe leadership team, we have now a 50/50 split of women and 
men.   

Some of the actions that support the career development of our employees include: 
o The European Leadership Development Programme (ELDP); this year 60% of the participants were female. These participants

are the very individuals, who will be moving into the senior regional and corporate roles when appropriate. 

o We have implemented ‘unconscious bias’ training for our management population to ensure that decisions around pay, career

development and remuneration are truly free from any gender bias. 

o The  company  is  committed  to  implement  a  global  role  banding  structure,  which  will  ensure  that  roles  are  graded  and

remunerated consistently irrespective of gender. 

o We undertake regular market assessments to provide salary and benefit  packages that are competitive in the market place,
irrespective  of  whether  the  employee  is  male  or  female.  We  use  a  number  of  professional,  external  and  independent 
remuneration consultancies, such as Mercer and Hay  to ensure that  we  position our salary  levels are at a competitive  level 
which reflects the responsibilities of the position. These exercises are gender neutral. 

o We  have  introduced  a  number  of  training  opportunities  including  Impactful  Presence  training,  workshops  on  Career

Development & INSEAD Women’s Leadership Programme. 

o We have enhanced our maternity & paternity leave policies in the UK; introduced career breaks & additional leave purchase

across Europe to enable better work-life balance. 

In addition, to show our strong aim to making a difference, we have signed up and pledged our commitment to the Government’s 
Think, Act, Report campaign https://think-act-report.campaign.gov.uk/.   

Gender Pay Gap Reporting statistics 

Difference in mean pay 
Difference in median pay 

42%  Difference in mean bonus pay 
23%  Difference in median bonus pay 

63% 
68% 

Proportion of men / women who received 
bonus pay in the relevant period 

Number of men / women in the 
quartile pay bands:  Upper, Upper 
Middle, Lower Middle, Lower 

U 
UM 
LM 
L 

Male 
67% 

Male 
67% 
32% 
23% 
33% 

Female 

54% 

Female 

33% 
68% 
77% 
67% 

I can confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report for International SOS Assistance UK Limited 
is complete and accurate.  

Dominik Schaerer, Regional General Manager for Northern Europe. 

internationalsos.com 

