           Gender Pay Gap Report - 2018      What is the Gender Pay Gap?  We would like to begin by explaining what our report will and won’t contain, as we have seen a lot of misunderstanding that this type of report refers to men and women receiving equal pay for the same job role, rather than looking at the entire company. The gender pay gap is an insight into the difference of average pay between men and women within a company as a whole, rather than a comparison between women and men receiving equal pay for the same role.  How do we handle this at T&E Ferris?  Here at T&E Ferris, we are committed to creating a workforce that is diverse and equal across all aspects of gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation and background. We absolutely support the equal pay initiative and regularly review our staff pay and bonus scheme to ensure that there are no issues with unfair pay gaps. Although our figures indicate that there is a typically higher rate of pay for men, this is in fact a false indication as it does not take into account the organisational structure of our business.    93% of our employees are women   Our figures indicate that we are actively placing women in our senior leadership positions in both our retail stores and our head office, which is great news.     Let us show you how the business is structured...  We don't want you to take our word for it though, here are some facts and figures that support our statement and show you the data in an easily accessible format.  We have 19 lovely Pandora stores within our franchise and – although we do not discriminate during our application process in any way – we seem to attract a large proportion of women who want to work with our fantastic jewellery. We have gathered the current figures (as of 5th April 2017) of employees, which totalled 315 female staff and 23 male staff. One quarter of the male staff figure work at our Head Quarters in Winchester.  The way that our pay structure is defined for both Store staff and Head Office staff is fitting and correlates to the average industry wages for their particular roles.  From the directive we have been given, we are required to report on the group as a whole with more than 250 employees. We have also chosen to report on our figures from a purely 'Retail Staff' point of view as we believe this is a more accurate reflection of how our business operates.  Firstly, let’s look at the gender pay and bonus gap from both an 'all staff' and a 'retail only' viewpoint;      We have looked at the gender distribution across the T&E Ferris workforce to work out the mean and median calculations and then to understand the distribution of male and female staff members in the four quartiles. Again, we have split this by retail and broadly across the business.  Our graphs show the pay quartiles of T&E Ferris and the number of men and women within each of the four quartiles. We have proportionally more women in our customer-facing roles (reflected in the second, third and fourth quartiles). By contrast, the top quartile shows that we have proportionally more men in our senior leadership positions.      The number of eligible female employees who received a bonus (or in our case a bonus or commission payment) is split below;      This statement is accurate at the time of publishing and a fair representation of our business as signed by Edward Ferris, Managing Director.  Here at T&E Ferris, we remain passionate about creating an equal and fair place to work for all of our staff. If you have any comments, please contact us on info@teferris.co.uk and we would be happy to answer any more in-depth questions.  Download the full Gender Pay Gap Infographic       © 2018 T&E Ferris Ltd    Privacy Policy  Gender Pay Gap Report         