GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING

With effect from 2017, it has become a legal requirement 
for companies with 250 or more employees to publish 
information about their  
gender pay gap as at 05 April each year.

The pay gap isn’t the same as equal pay. Equal pay - that 
men and women doing the same job should be paid the 
same - has been a legal requirement for 47 years. Even 
with equal pay, there may be specific considerations 
such as relevant qualifications, experience or skill levels 
that mean one person is better at doing their job than 
another. As long as there is a genuine reason for a 
difference in pay levels which is not related to gender, 
the unequal pay may well be justified. 

At Regatta Ltd, we are committed to equal opportunities 
in all areas of recruitment, employment, training and 
promotion. We strive to maintain an environment that 
is based on merit and inclusiveness. We are committed 
to ensuring all people can develop their full potential, 
irrespective of race, gender, marital status, sexual 
orientation, disability, age, pregnancy or maternity, 
gender reassignment, political opinion, religion, belief, or 
any other characteristic protected by applicable law. 

We strive to maintain a positive working environment that 
realises the full potential of employees and encourages 
their entrepreneurial spirit and productivity. 

The legislation requires us to calculate and publish the 
following measures:

•  Percentage gap in mean and median pay between  
  men and women based on their average hourly pay  
 

rate in the pay period covering 05 April.

•  The proportion of men and women in each  
  pay quartile.

•  Percentage gap in mean and median bonus paid  
 
  05 April.

to men and women in the twelve months preceding  

•  The proportion of men and women who were paid  
  a bonus.

We are pleased to report that these figures for Regatta 
Ltd, compiled in line with government and acas 
guidance, show a mean pay gap of 3.8%, significantly 
smaller than the current UK national average of 18.1%. 
The bonus gap looks higher because we have historically 
attracted more men into our wholesale and field sales 
roles. These roles have an ‘On-target-earnings’ pay 
structure which means that a significant part of their 
overall pay is bonus rather than basic pay. 

THE FIGURES FOR REGATTA LTD  
AS AT 5TH APRIL 2017 WERE:

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile

Number of men 236 (54.1%) and number of women  
200 (45.9%).

Mean gender pay gap 3.8%

Median gender pay gap -6.1%

Mean bonus gap 43% - influenced by higher bonus / 
incentive structures for people in our traditional market 

of Wholesale Sales and Sales Leadership roles which 
are predominantly applied for and held by men.

Median bonus gap 1.6%

The percentage of people paid a bonus –  
91.5% men and 92% women.

Overall we are pleased to report a small pay gap of 
3.8% compared to the UK national average. We will 
continue to focus on ensuring fairness and finding ways 
to maintain and improve equal opportunity for all our 
talented and valued people.

In the last 5 years the proportion of men and women 
who have attended our Head Office & Distribution 
Centre development programmes – Personal 
Effectiveness, First Line Management and Journey to 
Management Excellence has been 50.6% male and 
49.4% female. 

In addition as the group develops it’s Direct To 
Consumer (DTC) – retail and e-commerce divisions,  
we see a greater possibility to attract women into  
DTC sales roles which over time will start to address  
the imbalance in bonus.

