   Q Search for a condition, service or location  Translate this page  crisis@2gether.zportal.co.uk Translate this page Search       Conditions and services Conditions Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Autism spectrum condition Anxiety Bipolar disorder Depression Eating disorders Memory problems and dementia Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic attacks / panic disorder Personality disorders Phobias Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) Psychosis Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) Schizophrenia Sleep issues Stress Specialist Services Children and young people Learning disabilities Perinatal Recovery College Help and information Living with a mental health condition Information for carers Help in a crisis Useful contacts Who we are About Us Corporate information Board and governors Our operational plan Freedom of information Policies and procedures Charitable funds Equality and diversity Quality NHS Constitution Counter fraud Sustainability and Transformation Plans (STPs) Annual reports AGM presentations Smokefree Research Work for us Staff recognition – ROSCAs Get involved Volunteer with us Become a member Get in touch Contact us Give us your views Our teams and services Our locations Freedom of Information Request Media enquiries Social media Our newsletter News and views s Help in a Crisis  Select Page      Q Help in a crisis  Please note that the following numbers are for use in an emergency only. This service is predominantly for service users currently in our care, their families and carers. If you are not currently in our care you can either contact your GP, go to your nearest Accident and Emergency Department. or Alternatively contact the crisis team directly where your needs will be assessed and you will be advised accordingly. Please visit our get in touch section if your enquiry is not urgent.  Contacting our Crisis Teams If you are in Gloucestershire, please call: 0800 1690398 The number is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. When calling, please choose one of the following options depending on your location: Option 1 for Stroud and Cotswolds Option 2 for Gloucester and Forest Option 3 for Cheltenham, Tewkesbury and North Cotswolds Please note: telephone calls may be recorded. If you do not want that to happen, please tell the person who answers your call and they will phone you back on a ‘non-recordable’ telephone. If you are in Herefordshire, please call: 01432 364046 You can also contact us on behalf of a service user (this could mean you are a friend, a carer or someone from an outside agency). Is this the first time you have needed help for a mental health crisis? If you, a friend, or a relative is experiencing mental health problems for the first time and need emergency treatment or advice during office hours, then you should contact your GP. Alternatively contact the crisis team directly where your needs will be assessed and you will be advised accordingly.  NHS Choices If you don’t have a GP, use the NHS Choices service search to locate the nearest one to you. Are you feeling vulnerable? Do you need to talk to somebody now? If so, there are some people that can help you immediately. Call free on 116 123 If you are experiencing feelings of distress or despair, including those which could lead to suicide, you can call the Samaritans . Call free on 0800 11 11 If you are a child or a young person you may want to speak to Childline . Call 0808 816 0606 A safe, supportive, non-judgmental and informative service for people who self harm, their friends, families and carers. Equality and Diversity Our Trust is committed to delivering fully inclusive mental health and learning disabilities services for the community we serve. We are also fully committed to ensuring our staff work in an environment that is free from discrimination. Equality and diversity is central to our values and the provision of our services. As part of the NHS we are a public sector organisation with a statutory duty to ensure equality, diversity and human rights are embedded in everything we do, as required by the Equality Act 2010 , the Human Rights Act 1998 and the NHS Constitution . The  Equality Act 2010 replaced all previous equalities legislation and introduced a general public sector equality duty which all public bodies, including the NHS, have to meet. The general duty has three aims and requires public bodies to have due regard to the need to: eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by The Equality Act 2010 advance equality of opportunity between people from different groups foster good relations between people from different groups. This involves tackling prejudice and promoting understanding between people from different groups The Equality Act 2010 outlaws acts of discrimination against the following nine protected characteristics: Age Disability Gender Gender reassignment Marriage and civil partnership Pregnancy and maternity Race Religion or belief Sexual orientation The Human Rights Act 1998 was introduced to ensure people are treated with dignity and respect. Respect for the rights of individuals or groups is fundamental to their quality of life. The Human Rights Act has at its core the principles of FREDA – Fairness, Respect, Equality, Dignity and Autonomy. We believe that these principles are fundamental to the NHS in general and to our Trust specifically. From 2015 NHS England introduced the Workforce Race Equality Standard (WRES ) . Research has shown that people from a Black or Minority Ethnic (BME) background have a worse experience of working in the NHS than white people. From this research, a series of 9 metrics have been designed to highlight any gaps between the experiences of staff from and BME background and those of white staff. By understanding the reasons for these gaps we will make progress in tackling discrimination where it exists in all its forms, promoting and encouraging a fully inclusive workforce which, in turn, will positively impact upon patient care. Alongside the WRES, a revised version of the Equality Delivery System , known as EDS2, has been mandated for all NHS organisations in England. EDS2 has been designed with the intention of being a toolkit to support the identification, implementation and delivery of equality objectives. EDS2 is therefore designed to drive improvements to and accountability of services, ensure workplaces are free from discrimination and reduce inequalities in healthcare provision. EDS2 has a set of 18 outcomes grouped into four goals, focussing on issues of concern to service users, carers and staff. Performance is analysed and measured against these outcomes. The four goals are: Better health outcomes Improved patient access and experience A representative and supported workforce Inclusive leadership Over the coming weeks and months we will be gathering evidence and engaging with local stakeholders as we progress this major ongoing project. Downloads h Workforce Race Equality Standard Action Plan 2017 h Staff Experience Report 2017 h Workforce Race Equality Standard 2017 Accessible Information Standard The Accessible Information Standard was introduced in 2016. It ensures that service users and carers can receive information in a format that is accessible and able to be understood. If you need information in large print, braille, Easy Read, in another language or need other support, such as an interpreter, please let us know. You should also be asked if you have a preferred format for information when you first have contact with us. We will record your communication preferences and then share this information, with your consent, with other health and social care professionals. If you have any questions about this, either speak to one of our staff or email 2gnft.comms@nhs.net Gender Pay Gap Gender Pay Gap legislation requires the Trust to publish annually a series of calculations that highlight the Gender Pay Gap across the workforce. This report was discussed and approved by our Trust Board on 28 March 2018. How to get help Help in a crisis Get in touch Information for carers Useful contacts Governors Governor Portal About ²gether Who we are Policies and procedures Meet our board Research Staff recognition Work for us Our other websites ²gether Recruitment Let’s Talk Working Well Recovery College Our teams and services ADHD Service Assertive Outreach Team Gloucestershire Assertive Outreach Team Herefordshire Autism Spectrum Condition Service Charlton Lane Inpatient Services Children and Adolescent Mental Health Service (CAMHS) Herefordshire Children and Young People Gloucestershire Community Learning Disability Team (CLDT) Older Adult Community Mental Health Team Complex Psychological Interventions (CPI) Criminal Justice Liaison Service Crisis resolution and home treatment team (CRHTT) Early Intervention in Psychosis Herefordshire Eating Disorders Gloucestershire Eating Disorders Herefordshire Gloucestershire Recovery in Psychosis (GRiP) Greyfriars Psychiatric Intensive Care Unit Health Facilitation Team Intensive Health Outreach Team Later Life Team Learning Disabilities Intensive Support Service Gloucestershire Learning Disability Inpatient Services Learning Disability Team Herefordshire Let’s Talk Service Managing Memory 2gether Gloucestershire Memory Services Herefordshire Mental Health Liaison Gloucestershire Mental Health Liaison Herefordshire Montpellier Low Secure Unit Oak House Inpatient Services Reablement and Care Home Support Team Recovery Inpatient Units Recovery Team Gloucestershire Recovery Team Herefordshire Stonebow Inpatient Services The Maxwell Suite Vocational Services Wotton Lawn Inpatient Services How we can help Anxiety Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Bipolar disorder Autism Spectrum Conditions Children and young people services Depression Learning disabilities Memory problems and dementia Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) Panic attacks Personality disorders Phobias Psychosis Schizophrenia Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) Sleep issues Stress ²gether NHS Foundation Trust Headquarters Rikenel Montpellier Gloucester GL1 1LY Tel: 01452 894000 Governor Portal   Facebook    Twitter  Whos theme My Theme | Powered by MyPress | Designed by Your Design Agency  Accessibility   B&C;   Contrasts Dark   Contrasts White  A  A  A cancel accessibility   Provided by:       