2017

Gender pay            gap report

Foreword

At XL Catlin, we are committed to creating a more 
diverse workforce and inclusive culture, where all 
colleagues feel welcome and can reach their highest 
potential. That’s why our CEO, Mike McGavick, 
and senior leaders have made Diversity & Inclusion 
part of our global strategy, with special emphasis 
on increasing the number of women in leadership 
positions. We want to build a culture that values all 
individuals, backgrounds, and ideas; a place where 
talented people achieve great things together. 

We believe that as we continue to more closely 
reflect the diversity of the world around us, we’ll 
gain a competitive advantage – different viewpoints, 
fresh perspectives and exceptional performance.

XL Catlin’s commitment to D&I goes beyond our 
firm. We want to be an advocate for change not 
only within re/insurance but across all industries 
and geographies. Since launching our D&I strategy, 
we’ve made steady progress:

•  Committing to the advancement of women  

by signing the HM Treasury Women in  
Finance Charter.

•  Establishing policies that help us ensure we attract 

and hire the best and brightest, not simply the 
most familiar.

•  Providing colleague training that reinforces 

inclusive leaders are the best leaders

•  Actively supporting organizations and events  

that champion D&I, in the re/insurance industry 
and beyond. 

And while we are pleased with the progress we’ve 
made, we are still very much on a journey to being 
a truly diverse and inclusive employer – a journey to 
which we are deeply committed.

2

What does gender 
pay gap mean?

While both gender pay gap and gender pay 
equity relate to disparity in pay men and 
women receive in the workplace, they are two 
distinct issues: 

Gender pay gap  
A measure of the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women across an 
organization or the labor market. The gender 
pay gap does not show differences in pay for 
comparable jobs.

Gender pay equity  
Men and women receive equal pay for work of 
equal or comparable value. 

Our gender pay gap data

Pay and bonus 
XL Catlin’s mean gender pay gap shows the 
difference between the average pay of all XL 
Catlin UK male and female colleagues. The median 
gender pay gap shows the pay difference between 
the middle pay numbers of XL Catlin’s male and 
female colleagues.

Pay gap
Bonus gap

Mean
30.2%
64.9%

Median
31.4%
53.6%

Proportion of males and 
females in each pay quartile
Top quartile

Upper middle quartile

23% | 77%

32% | 68%

Proportion of males and 
females receiving a bonus 

97% 98%

Lower middle 

Lowest quartile

45% | 55%

58% | 42%

Female Male

3

Understanding our  
gender pay gap data

As of the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, our mean 
and median gender pay gap was 30.2% and 31.4% 
respectively. Analysis of bonuses paid to XL Catlin 
colleagues in the 12 months preceding the 5 April 
2017 snapshot date indicated a mean and median 
bonus pay gap of 64.9% and 53.6% respectively. 
For comparison, per Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data, XL Catlin’s mean is smaller than the 
35% mean pay gap reported for the Financial and 
Insurance industries. However, our mean gender 
pay gap is above the UK average of 17.4% (which 
includes all industry sectors), again per ONS data.

A variety of factors can impact the gender pay 
gap, and understanding these factors is key to 
improving it. The central drivers behind our pay 
gap include: 

Our gender pay and bonus gap figures reflect the 
gender profile of both our own workforce and the 
wider industry. As of the snapshot date of 5 April 
2017, 40% of colleagues measured for gender pay 
gap reporting were women. According to the ONS, 
the number of women employed in underwriting 
positions in the UK is nearly half that of men. That 
presents our industry with a long-term challenge 
to improve the gender pay gap. And XL Catlin is 
committed to supporting efforts that help the 
industry change this and build a more diverse and 
inclusive workforce.

XL Catlin and gender  
pay equity

Because of the tendency to incorrectly conflate 
Gender Pay Equity with Gender Pay Gap, it is 
important to highlight where we stand regarding 
gender pay equity.

We are confident we pay our colleagues fairly and 
relative to their role, special skills, experience 
and performance; this is embedded in our pay 
for performance culture.  We are committed to 
continual reviews of our pay and practices and 
addressing any issues if they were to surface.

•  the significantly higher proportion of men in 
senior actuarial, underwriting and managerial 
positions, which are more highly compensated 
in the highest quartiles.

•  the number of women employed in underwriting 

positions in the UK is nearly half that of men. 

We are working to address both  
underlying factors.

4

Closing the gap

We’re not just committed to closing the gender pay gap, we want to build a culture that values all 
individuals, backgrounds and ideas; a place where smart people achieve great things together. And we 
have already taken steps to help us move the gender pay gap needle – steps intended to address both the 
issue of too few women in senior positions and too few women in the talent pipeline.

Women in Finance Charter

Policies and programs

•  The Charter is a pledge for gender balance 

across financial services. It is a commitment 
by HM Treasury and signatory firms to work 
together to build a more balanced and fair 
industry. Firms that sign up to this Charter are 
pledging to be the best businesses in the sector. 

•  Diverse candidate slate requirement 

This policy encourages recruiters and hiring 
managers to think differently about how they 
find and interview candidates so we attract  
the best and the brightest, not just the  
most familiar. 

•  The Charter target we have set and will 

report on is to increase the representation 
of women in our senior and executive roles 
to 35% or more by 2021. This falls within the 
target recommendations set by the Hampton 
Alexander Review, commissioned by the UK 
government to look at ways to ensure talented 
women of FTSE companies are recognized, 
promoted and rewarded.

•  Unconscious bias and behaviour-based 

interviewing  
We have introduced guidelines to help 
hiring managers to be aware of unconscious 
personal and cultural biases and how they may 
prejudice objectivity and exclude well-qualified 
candidates.

•  Inclusive leadership training 

With a goal of 100% participation, 84% of senior  
leaders have completed this training designed  
to raise awareness of D&I, establish common  
definitions and assist leaders to reflect on 
personal biases and behaviours. 

•  Women’s executive leadership program 
Designed to facilitate a path to leadership  
roles, this intensive 12-month global 
development program helps top talent enhance 
their leadership skills, broaden their business 
knowledge and accelerate their  
career opportunities.

Partnerships, community involvement  
and colleague engagement

•  CEO action for diversity and inclusion 

XL Catlin’s CEO Mike McGavick is among 300 
international business leaders (and one of a 
few from insurance) to sign this pledge. It’s 
the largest CEO-driven business commitment 
to advance diversity and inclusion within the 
workplace globally.

•  Women in the workplace 

In cooperation with the East London Business 
Alliance, we are supporting long-term efforts 
to enhance gender diversity through outreach 
to girls age 14-15 in East London schools. 
The program will help enhance participant 
employability and aspirations.

•  Women of the World (WoW) 

These colleague resource groups help to 
accelerate the advancement of women. 
Volunteer-led, they have expanded  
participants’ business networks and provided 
them with quality programming that focuses on 
leadership, building relationships and general 
business topics.

5

Conclusion

We want to be leaders in driving change. Especially with 
an issue as critical as this. So, we will continue with the 
efforts we’ve already started. 

This is not just good for the London market, or even 
the financial services and insurance industry – it’s good 
for the world’s economy. According to McKinsey & Co. 
$12 trillion could be added to global GDP by 2025 by 
advancing women’s equality. But more than money, it’s 
the right thing to do. 

It took hundreds of years for the insurance industry to 
grow in such a way as to arrive at the gender pay gap we 
see today. Meaningful change will take time but making 
a commitment to support that change does not.

We also call on our industry peers to join us in taking 
steps both to help address the gender pay gap in 
insurance and to build a more diverse and inclusive 
industry workforce overall.

Declaration

I confirm the gender pay data contained in this report  
is accurate.

Paul Jardine 
Chief Experience Officer

6

XL Catlin, the XL Catlin logo and Make Your World Go are trademarks of XL Group Ltd companies.  
XL Catlin is the global brand used by XL Group Ltd’s (re)insurance vsidiaries.

