 

 

 
 

Greenyard Frozen UK Ltd 

Our Gender Pay  
Gap Report 2017 

 

Introduction 

Gender  pay  reporting  legislation  requires  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  to  publish  data 
every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees.  
 
Under the legislation, employers are required to report the following: 
 

  The difference in the mean pay of full-pay men and women, expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in the median pay of full-pay men and women, expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in mean bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in median bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage 
  The proportion of men and women who received bonus pay 
  The proportion of full-pay men and women in each of four quartile pay bands 

About us 

Greenyard Frozen is a division of Greenyard, a global market leader in fresh and prepared fruit and 
vegetables, flowers and plants, fresh food logistic services and growing media. 
 
Greenyard  Frozen  is  a  worldwide  market  leader  in  frozen  foods.  We  transform  freshly  harvested 
vegetables and fruits into food products that are easy to store, conserve and consume. Our products 
respond  to  the  needs  of  modern  consumers  who  want  to  enjoy  healthy  and  tasty  food,  with  a 
minimum of preparation time. We offer our customers – including retailers, food service companies 
and the food industry in general  –  a wide range  of innovative  and high-quality products, excellent 
service, and advanced logistics. 
 
Greenyard Frozen started out more than 50 years ago as a small local enterprise, and grew into an 
international  producer  and  supplier  of  fresh-frozen  vegetables  and  fruits.  Today,  we  run  ten 
production sites at strategic locations in some of the most fertile regions in Europe. Thanks to our 
international sales and distribution network, our products are now available to consumers all over 
the world. 
 
This  is  our  Gender  Pay  Gap  report  for  Greenyard  Frozen  UK  Ltd  (comprising  of  two  sites  in  Kings 
Lynn, Norfolk and Boston, Lincolnshire) for the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.  
 
 

 

 

Declaration 
I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
 
Nigel Terry,  
Managing Director UK,  
Greenyard Frozen UK Ltd 

 

 

Pay calculated for the pay period including 05/04/2017 

Bonus calculated for the year 06/04/2016 to 05/04/2017 

 
Pay Differences  

The pay differences are expressed as the difference between the mean/median hourly rate/bonus 
for  men  and  women  as  a  percentage of  the  men’s  rate/bonus  pay.  Positive  values  mean  that  the 
average rate for men is greater than for women. 
 
 
Pay Differences 
 

(%) 

 Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

14.34 

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

13.74 

Difference in mean bonus payments 

41.31 

Difference in median bonus payments 

34.27 

 

 

 

 

 

  Our  data  was  collected  as  at  the 
snapshot date of 5th April 2017. Although 
we  are  classed  as  a  ‘relevant  employer’ 
with over 250 employees, our workforce 
comprised  of  236 
‘full-pay  relevant 
employees’ at this date, for the purpose 
of  this  report.  This  consisted  of  54 
women  and  182  men.  The  figures  show 
that  Greenyard  Frozen  UK  Ltd  has  a 
mean  gender  pay  gap  of  14.34%  and  a 
median gender pay gap of 13.74%.  
The  bonus  payment  calculations  were 
based  on  all  ‘relevant  employees’  as 
required under the reporting legislation.  

In common with the manufacturing sector, our workforce at Greenyard Frozen UK is predominantly 
male.  Given  that  79%  of our  workforce  is male  it  is also  the case  that men  outnumber  women  at 
every level of Greenyard Frozen UK. 
 
 
Number of men and women in each pay quartile 

 
Women 
 

Men 

Upper

51 

Upper Middle

51 

Lower Middle

34 

25 

Lower

46 

13 

8 

8 

Over half of men (102) were in roles 
in  the  upper  and  upper  middle 
quartiles  and  80  men  were  in  the 
lower middle and lower quartiles. 
 
This compares with 16 women in the 
upper  and  upper  middle  quartiles 
and  38  women  in  the  lower  middle 
and lower quartiles. 
 

 

 
 

 

The  greater  proportion  of  the  male  workforce  in  the  upper  pay  quartiles  along  with  the  greater 
proportion of the females in the lower pay quartiles has an impact on our gender pay gap. 
 
 
Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile (%) 
 
The charts below illustrate the gender distribution at Greenyard Frozen UK Ltd across four equally 
sized quartiles of the workforce. 
 

 
Women 
 

Men 

Lower 

22.03% 

77.97% 

Upper 

42.37% 

57.63% 

13.56% 

13.56% 

86.44% 

86.44% 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quartile figures are calculated by dividing the pay rates into four equal groups from the lowest to 
the highest and working out how many male and female employees are in each group. 
 
Greenyard Frozen UK Ltd is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for all employees. We have  a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same  or equivalent 
work, regardless of their sex (or any other protected characteristic). 
 
We are therefore confident  that our gender  pay  gap does  not  stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather our gender pay gap is the result of the roles in 
which men and women occupy within the business and the salaries that these roles attract. 
 
Across  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole,  men  are  more  likely  than  women  to  be  in  senior  roles.  This 
pattern is reflected in the make-up of Greenyard Frozen UK’s workforce. 
 
The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say that 
Greenyard Frozen UK’s gap compares favourably with that of other organisations. 
 
The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%. Greenyard Frozen UK 
Ltd’s mean gender pay gap at 14.34% is therefore lower than that for the whole economy. 
 
The  median  gender  pay  gap  for  the  whole  economy  (according  to  the  October  2017  Office  for 
National Statistics  (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE)  figures)  is 18.4%. Greenyard 
Frozen  UK  Ltd’s  median  gender  pay  gap  at  13.74%  is  therefore  lower  than  that  for  the  whole 
economy. 
 

 

Bonus Pay Differences 

The percentage of employees receiving bonuses are simply based on the numbers of ‘relevant’ male 
and ‘relevant’ female employees identified as having received some kind of bonus payment in the 
year. 
 
 
Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Women 

 

Men 

76.67% were paid a bonus 

78.6% were paid a bonus 

 
 
The  mean  gender  bonus  gap  and  the  median  gender  bonus  gap  for  Greenyard  Frozen  UK  Ltd  are 
relatively large at 41.31% and 34.27%. All employees of Greenyard Frozen UK Ltd are entitled to an 
annual bonus on completion of one years’ service in addition to a long service bonus on reaching set 
milestones. Under our current policy, the Senior Management and Commercial teams also attract a 
performance bonus. As the majority of the Senior Management and Commercial teams are male this 
has had an impact on our gender bonus gap. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Taking Action 

 
 
 
Greenyard  Frozen  UK  Ltd  will  continue  to  monitor 
 
pay  and  ensure  there  is  no  bias  towards  either 
 
gender from the point of recruitment and throughout 
 
all  aspects  of  employment 
including  promotion, 
 
opportunities for training, pay and benefits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

= 

Disability 

Age 

Sex 

Gender 

Reassignment 

Race 

Religion & 

Belief 

Pregnancy & 

Maternity 

Marriage & Civil 

Partnership 

Sexual 

Orientation 

We will explore how we can attract more women 
into our business to create a more even gender 
balance. As an equal opportunities employer, we 
strongly believe in appointing the best candidate for 
the role, regardless of their gender or other factors 
covered by the Equality Act and value equally the 
unique contribution that an individual’s experience, 
knowledge and skills can make. 

We  will  review  our  family  friendly  policies  and 
continue  to  encourage  flexible  working  across  all 
levels of our business to ensure that our people have 
the opportunity to work in a way that works best for 
their career aspirations and home life. 

W 

O 

R 

K 

L 

I 

F 

E 

 

Testimonials 

 
On returning from maternity leave for the first time I worked 
 
full time hours, however I then had two more babies in quick 
 
succession  so  obviously  my  circumstances  had  suddenly 
changed. I applied for part time working which the Company 
 
approved.  I  worked  24  hours  per  week;  the  Company  were 
 
very  supportive  and  flexible  in  allowing  me  to  try  different 
shift  patterns  until  we  found  what  worked  best  for both  the 
 
Company and my home life. 

 
Now  my  children  are  older  and  attend  school,  I  recently 
applied to return to full time working and again the Company 
 
has supported this and approved my request. 
 
I feel very lucky in how  supportive  and flexible  the Company 
 
has been with me and am very thankful for this. 

 

 
 

Laura 
Agricultural Administrator 
Joined Greenyard Frozen in 1994 
 

As with many parents, on having  my first  child  my priorities 
quickly  changed  to  wanting  to  be  the  best  mother  possible 
and spend as much time with my son as I could. 

Greenyard  Frozen  accepted  my  flexible  working  request  to 
allow  me  to  return  to  work  on  a  part  time  basis,  as  well  as 
creating a new role for me to fulfil.  

It  took  some  time  to  adjust  to  part  time  working  having 
always  worked  full  time  hours,  however  I  still  feel  a  valued 
member  of  the  team  and  the  contribution  I  make 
is 
recognised.  

Sarah 
HR Projects Officer 
Joined Greenyard Frozen in 2012 
 

 

