 

Cambridge Arts & Sciences Limited  

Gender Pay Report 2017  

Cambridge Arts & Sciences Limited delivers a range of academic 
programmes to international students.  We are reporting on our Gender Pay 
Gap for Cambridge Arts & Sciences Limited. 

Statutory Reporting Requirement 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap  
Median Gender Pay Gap  

% 

-5.9% 
0.7% 

 
Our gender pay gap review shows there is parity between male and female 
employees pay when considering median pay.  Whilst the overall population 
has more female than male employees, further analysis shows there is a 
larger number of male staff employed in operational roles in comparison to 
academic roles within the organisation. 

There is the opportunity for full-time, part-time and shift working within the 
organisation and a greater number of females are employed within part-time 
roles. 

Statutory Reporting Requirement 
 
Mean Gender Bonus Gap  
Median Gender Bonus Gap  
% Male Employees receiving a bonus is  
% Female Employees receiving a bonus is 

% 

52.3% 
36.5% 
31.4% 
19.4% 

 
The mean and median gender bonus gap figures tell us that where bonus 
payments are used as part of the reward package a higher proportion of 
males received a bonus payment compared to females.  This is because 
within the operational area of the business an attendance bonus was paid 
on the same basis to male and female employees.  However, a higher 
number of male employees are employed in roles within this area which is 
reflected in the figures. 

 

 

Pay Quartile Percentages 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them at or below the lower quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but 
at or below the median 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the median but at or 
below the upper quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the upper quartile 

Males 

Females 

 

48.4% 

51.6% 

38.5% 

61.5% 

47.7% 

52.3% 

38.5% 

61.5% 

 
We confirm that our data has been calculated according to the 
requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017. 

Our Actions 

We are committed to helping our employees and aim to do this through:  

Flexibility – we will continue to offer the opportunity for employees to work 
flexibly within the organisation supporting both male and female employees 
in managing their work-life balance and reviewing our family friendly policies. 

Learning and Development – we are keen to encourage the development of 
talent within the organisation creating opportunities for all employees to 
develop and reach their potential. 

Apprenticeships – we are developing our Apprenticeship programme to help 
employees starting out in their careers and to identify future leaders for our 
business. 

Developing the Culture – we are taking positive steps towards developing our 
culture, communication and reward offering in the coming years. 

We remain committed to reporting our Gender Pay Gap on an annual basis. 

                                            

             

 

Stuart White   

 

 

 

Managing Director, CATS Colleges 

 

 

Karin Askham 

Head of School, CSVPA 

   

 
 

 

 

