Gender Pay Gap Report
 
Being an organisation employing more than 250 people Forbes has  
uploaded to the Government website the required information in connection 
with the “gender pay gap” between women and men employed by the Firm. 
Please see the attached report. This is not a comparison of the salaries for  
females and males doing the same jobs, but is calculated by comparing the 
mean (average) and median (middle) hourly pay of all women and men  
employed across the whole practice irrespective of their roles.  
                                  
In an organisation such as ours the figures will be affected substantially by the 
fact that there are many more women working in support roles than men.  We 
are committed to treating all staff fairly and equally in all respects and we feel 
that a more accurate picture of our approach to fairness in respect of pay can 
be illustrated by comparing the differential in respect of specific roles.
 
For instance, on the date relevant to the information recently published, which 
was a year ago, of the qualified staff employed by Forbes, 60% were women 
and in that group the overall mean pay gap difference was just 1%.  
 
Whilst we are not required to publish data about Partners, who are not  
employees,  we are able to say that this group comprises 35% women with a 
mean gender pay gap of 20%.  Whilst there is more work to do, this is better 
than the national average in our sector, and we believe we are going in the right 
direction shown by the fact that the last 6 Partners appointed were all women.
 
We believe our approach is fair and we will continue to 
strive to improve our performance in relation to gender 
pay equality as we will in respect of our approach to all 
areas of equality and diversity.

I confirm that the data contained within this report is accurate and meets the 
requirements of the gender pay gap reporting regulations.

Daniel King
Managing Partner

April 2018

Difference in 
hourly rate of 
pay - mean: 
30.37%

Difference in 
hourly rate of 
pay - median: 
45.27%

Difference in 
bonus pay -  
mean: 1.05%

Difference in 
bonus pay - 
median: 0.00%

Percentage of employees who received 
bonus pay:
Males who received bonus pay: 99.8%
Females who received bonus pay: 100%

Employees by pay quartile:

Upper 
quartile

Lower
middle 
quartile

Upper
middle 
quartile

Lower 
quartile

