GENDER PAY GAP REPORT
 

for Progress Housing Group Ltd.
 

Report date March 2018
 
Snapshot date 5 April 2017
 

 

 
 
 
About Progress Housing Group
 
Progress Housing Group employs people with a range of skills in a variety of professions focused
on improving the lives of people nationwide. All of the Group’s activities are underpinned by our
strong belief in equality and diversity and we want our employees to be really proud to be part of
our organisation.  
 
 
 
Gender pay gap reporting
 
 
Gender pay gap reporting is required for all companies with over 250 employees. On 5th April
2017, only one member organisation within Progress Housing Group employed more than 250
employees and that was Progress Housing Group Ltd. 
 
 
Employees of Progress Housing Group Ltd. work across a range of functions including corporate
services, customer services, control centre, technology enabled care and repairs and
maintenance. 
 
 
We have found that our gender pay data reflects an uneven distribution of genders in some areas
rather than an issue of equal pay. This is further explained in the 'more about our gender pay
reporting' section on page 7.  
 

On the 5 April 2017, Progress Housing Group Ltd. 
 
employed 316 people.
 

55.1% 
were male 

 of all employees  

44.9% 
 of all employees  
were female 

The overall mean gender hourly
1.8%
pay gap is 
 
This means overall females are paid £0.28 per hour less than males.
 
The UK mean gender pay gap is 17.4%*
 

 

 HOURLY 
 
PAY RATE
 
The difference between the
gross hourly pay rate for

males and females
 

The overall median gender
15.1%
hourly pay gap is 
 
 
This means that the average (median) female is paid £2.23 per hour
less than the average (median) male.
 
The UK median gender pay gap is 18.4%*
 

*
 

The UK comparative data is taken from the Office for National Statistics annual survey of
hours and earnings gender pay gap October 2017.
 

QUARTILE PAY BANDS
 

The proportion of male and female employees by pay quartile.
 

46.8% 

53.2% 

59.5% 

40.5% 

Lower quartile 

There are 37 males and 42 females within this quartile. 

Lower middle quartile 

There are 32 males and 47 females within this quartile.  

75.9% 

24.1% 
Upper middle quartile 

There are 60 males and 19 females within this quartile.  

57.0% 

43.0% 

Upper quartile 

There are 45 males and 34 females within this quartile.  

The only part of Progress Housing Group Ltd. that
routinely received performance bonuses were the
qualified trades operatives, who were all male at the
time of reporting. From 1st December 2017 we ended
these bonus payment arrangements.
 

BONUS PAY
 
The difference between
bonus earnings for males

or females.

 

The overall mean gender bonus
21.7%
gap is 
 
 
This means overall males received £270 more in bonus
than females.
 

The overall median gender
77.2%
bonus gap is 
 
 
This means that the average (median) male has received £1183 more in
bonus compared to the average (median) female.
 

      of males received a bonus and 
                          of females received a bonus
 

  4.9%

27.0%

 

 

 
More about our gender pay gap reporting
 
 
Progress Housing Group Ltd. operates a pay and grading system against which jobs are evaluated
and pay is set. This is operated consistently irrespective of the gender of employees in roles. There
are some grades within Progress Housing Group Ltd. which benefit from having incremental pay
points; others are on a fixed salary. 
 
 
Some grades are predominately occupied by women; one of our administrative grades, which has its
pay scale within the lower quartile and the lower middle quartile, has 54 females and 10 males. There
are also some grades which are predominately occupied by men; our qualified trades operatives, for
example, are 100% male. There is an equal number of men and women on our Senior Management
Team. We intend to analyse our data further to inform our equality and diversity commitments.
 
The only part of Progress Housing Group Ltd. that routinely received performance bonus payments
were the qualified trades operatives within our repairs and maintenance service. From 1st December
2017, we ended these bonus payment arrangements.
 
 
Male and female employees have the same terms and conditions of employment and all grades of
employees have equal access to flexible working patterns and enhanced family friendly provisions.
This is in line with our commitment to reward people fairly for the contribution they make, irrespective
of gender or any other protected characteristic. 
 
 
We continue to appoint based on someone’s ability to do the job and we are satisfied that our gender
pay data is reflective of under representation of a particular gender in a particular grade rather than
any other reason. 
 
 
Whilst we recognise that there are some areas that are under represented, through our equality and
diversity agenda and programme of Equality Impact Assessments, we continually seek ways to
redress any imbalance in the make-up of our workforce. 
 
 
We continue to take great pride in our membership of Women in Social Housing and the Housing
Diversity Network, with colleagues actively participating in development opportunities and mentoring
programmes.
 
 
 
 
Jacqueline De-Rose
 
Group Chief Executive
 
 

 

 

