 

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

MARCH 2018 

 

 

0 

 

 

 
Building a diverse workforce and maintaining an inclusive workplace is vitally 
important to Portmeirion Group in achieving our strategic vision and is an integral 
element of our company values.  We strive to eliminate any gender bias in our 
pay and remuneration systems and understand that equal pay between males 
and females is a moral obligation and a legal right in accordance with the 
Equality Act 2010.  As a business we regularly monitor equal pay internally to 
ensure that both male and female employees are remunerated appropriately.   
 
We have conducted the analysis below in accordance with the Equality Act 
2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations which came into effect in April 
2017 (the “Regulations”). 
 
Portmeirion Group UK Limited is the main operating subsidiary of Portmeirion 
Group PLC.  It is the only UK company within the Portmeirion Group that employs 
over 250 people and therefore the only company required to report under the 
Regulations.  The statements and figures in this report relate solely to Portmeirion 
Group UK Limited (the “Company”).   
 
Pay gap based on 5th April 2017 snapshot date 
 
Hourly pay 
 
The UK-wide pay gap between male and female employees is 6.8% as a mean 
figure1 and 7.8% as a median figure2.  We are pleased to report that our gender 
pay gap is much lower than the mean gender pay gap of 18.1% cited by the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
 
It is important to note that the pay figures used in the calculations are recorded 
after deductions for any salary sacrifice arrangement, as stipulated by the 
Regulations.  The Company gives employees the option to enter into such 
agreements for tax efficient pension savings and the provision of childcare  

Median 
 7.8% 

Mean  
 
6.8% 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

1 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
vouchers.  The resulting effect is that the pay used for the purposes of calculating 
the gender pay gap is significantly reduced for employees electing an element 
of salary sacrifice.  Our analysis of the gender pay gap shows that this has an 
effect on our figures as we have a greater number of female employees making 
use of salary sacrifice arrangements than male employees.   
 
There is some flexibility in the level of salaries paid to employees particularly in 
management roles as this is dictated by knowledge, skills and experience as well 
as market conditions.  However gender is not a factor in how much we pay our 
employees. 
 
The Company has an equal balance between male and female employees, 
with females representing 51% of the workforce. 
 
Proportion of male and female employees by quartile pay 
Male   
 
 
55.5%   
Top Quartile  
Upper Middle Quartile 
52.8%   
50% 
Lower Middle Quartile 
 
Lower Quartile 
37.2%   
 
Bonus gap based on 12 months preceding 5th April 2017 
 
 
Bonus  
 
The UK-wide bonus gap for the Company is 77.94% as a mean figure and 0% as a 
median figure.   
 
The mean bonus gap is primarily driven by the elements of incentives that are 
included within the calculations, for example only the most senior  
employees participate in share scheme incentives which deliver a taxable gain 
and is part of “bonus” as defined by the Regulations.   
 

Female 
44.5% 
47.2% 
50% 
62.8%   

Median 
0% 

Mean  
77.94% 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

2 

 

 
 

99.66% 
99.03% 

 
 
 
As reflected in the pay quartile figures, there are more male employees within 
Portmeirion Group UK’s Board of Directors and Senior Management team than 
females.  Employees at such senior positions are rewarded by different levels of 
incentives, including participation in share schemes and incentive structures 
directly linked to Group results and yielding higher incentive payments than the 
average employee. 
 
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus 
Male   
Female 
 
The figures show 99.66% of male employees and 99.03% of female employees 
received a bonus during the snapshot period.  These figures demonstrate our 
commitment to give male and female employees an equal opportunity to earn 
a bonus and be rewarded for their contribution to the company’s success. 
 
Our commitments 
Portmeirion Group is committed to diversity and inclusion in all parts of our 
workforce and believe that this equality should be supported through fair pay.  
We support reward and recognition schemes within the company and Group as 
a whole.  A review of our remuneration policy is undertaken annually.   
 
The provision of certain welfare benefits for our team members is key to our 
remuneration policy and therefore every employee is eligible for a significant 
level of life cover, health care, employer pension contributions and all receive  
annual holiday entitlement in excess of their statutory entitlement.  Annual 
incentives, on which the bonus gap reporting is based, are only one element of 
our employee reward package. 
 
We regularly review our diversity metrics and strive to improve any gender 
imbalance.  Indeed, women represented a greater proportion of appointments 
at board level in 2017 than men. 
 

 

3 

 

 
 
 
We will continue to review our Company policies, procedures and practices to 
ensure that, so far as possible, we offer flexible working hours and shift patterns 
and opportunities for part-time working.   
 
We have a robust recruitment policy which stipulates that the Company will 
recruit, train and reward based on merit and provide opportunities for our 
employees to fulfil their ambitions regardless of gender or any other protected 
characteristic.      
 
This statement confirms that the published information is accurate at the time of 
publishing. 
 

 

Samantha Pearce 
Human Resources Director – Portmeirion Group UK Limited 
28 March 2018 
 
1The mean is the average of all the numbers in a dataset. 
2The median is the numerical value which splits the top 50% of the population 
from the bottom 50%. 

 

4 

