 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FUCHS LUBRICANTS (UK) PLC 
 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MANAGING DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT 

         

 
 
 

FUCHS LUBRICANTS GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 
Fuchs Lubricants (UK) PLC ensures that people are treated equally at 
work, across all levels and locations. This includes making sure they 
have the same opportunities for recognition, reward and career 
development. 
 
 
As a company, we create a culture where people can be themselves at 
work, regardless of their gender or any other attributes. Diversity and 
inclusion are central to our business.  
 
 
We are confident that we have equal pay for equal work within the 
Company, however there is still a gender pay gap. This gap is caused 
by the unequal distribution of male and female employees across the 
company, not because of our pay policies and practices. The main 
reasons for this are that it is typical for our industry that there are fewer 
women in senior positions, and fewer women working in certain roles 
that attract higher levels of bonuses, such as sales.  
  

 
We are continually working to bring gender balance to our 
workforce, and while progress has been made, there is still some 
way to go within the chemical industry. 
 
 
We support the UK Government ‘s leadership in gender equality 
and the requirement for companies to publish their figures.  
 
 
We confirm that the Gender Pay Gap data included in this report 
for Fuchs Lubricants (UK) PLC is accurate and has been 
produced in accordance with the guidance on managing gender 
pay developed by the Arbitration and Conciliation Service (ACAS) 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
Richard Halhead 
Managing Director 

Page 1 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP DATA 

Key: 
Pay: Pay relates to the hourly rate at the snapshot date (05/04/2017). The hourly 
rate is worked out by dividing total pay for the month closest to the snapshot date, 
in our case being March’s payday, by the number of hours worked. This includes 
any bonuses paid in that month. 
 
Mean and Median: The gender pay gap shows the difference between the Mean 
and Median pay and bonus earnings of male and female employees. Mean is 
worked out by adding each person’s individual amount together and dividing by 
the number of employees. The median is worked out by putting each employee 
into a list, smallest to largest and using the mid-point.  
 
Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus: The proportion of male 
and female employees who were paid any amount of bonus pay. 
 
Proportion of males and females in each quartile band: The proportion of 
male and female employees in four quartile hourly rate pay bands from lowest to 
highest. It is done by dividing the workforce into four equal parts 
 
 
 

 
 

FUCHS LUBRICANTS GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 

 
Equal Pay 
Fuchs Lubricants is committed to providing equal pay for equal work, not only because it 
is a legal requirement, but because it is the right thing to do. We regularly conduct 
analysis which shows male and female employees are paid equally for equal work.  
 
Our pay policies and practices are designed to control potential bias and to ensure equal 
pay for equivalent jobs regardless of gender.  
 
The Gender Pay Gap 
 
The Gender Pay Gap refers to the difference in the average pay and bonuses of all men 
and women across an organisation. We are confident that we have equal pay for equal 
work, however when comparing an overall average there is still a Gender Pay Gap.  
 
Understanding the Gap 
 
Men have traditionally dominated the lubricants sector, and this is reflected within our 
organisation where 80% of our employees are male and 20% are female.  
 
There are two main reasons for our gender pay and bonus gaps; we have more men than 
women in senior positions, and women are under-represented in scientific, engineering, 
technical and sales roles. These positions attract high levels of remuneration due to 
scarcity of skills and highly competitive markets. 
 
Our bonus awards are gender neutral. However, in some areas, such as sales, we see a 
greater bonus gap because of higher variable pay, reflecting market practice and few 
women in these roles. These bonuses have a significant impact on our mean bonus gap. 
 
Fuchs Value Added Reward Scheme 
 
In addition to traditional incentive schemes, in 2017, the Fuchs Value Added Reward 
Scheme was launched to ensure that all employees are recognised for their contributions 
to the business. 
 
 

Page 2 

Mean and Median pay and bonus gap  Men’s is higher by (Mean) Men’s is higher by (Median) Gender Pay Gap 32.4% 8.6%  Men’s is higher by (Mean) Women’s is higher by (Median) Gender Bonus Gap 76.1% 37.7% Proportion of Employees receiving Bonuses Male Female 51.1% 50.9% Proportion of Employees in each pay quartile band Pay Quartile Men Women Employees in Quartile Lower Quartile 76.5% 23.5% 81 Lower Middle Quartile 84% 16% 81 Upper Middle Quartile 79% 21% 81 Upper Quartile 95.1% 4.9% 82  OUR APPROACH 

 

 

 

Inside Fuchs 

FUCHS LUBRICANTS GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 
To address gender balance, we maintain a culture of inclusion in 
which people from all backgrounds can fully contribute to the 
growth and success of our business. To achieve this, we remain 
focused on 3 areas: 
 

-  Visible Leadership 
- 
-  Attraction and Development 

Inclusive Culture 

 
 
 
 
Visible Leadership: 
 
In line with our leadership principles and code of conduct, we 
conduct leadership meetings with a focus on collaboration and 
unconscious bias to ensure leaders understand their impact on 
others and how they can create a more inclusive working 
environment. 
 
 

 
Inclusive Culture: 
 
We offer maternity, adoption, surrogacy and shared parental leave 
policies equalised to balance the demands of parenting between both 
parents.  
 
We raise awareness in areas including gender identity, inclusive 
leadership, unconscious bias, disability, cultural awareness and sexual 
orientation.  
 
 
 
Attraction and Development: 
 
We have gender neutral practices in our recruitment process including 
ensuring job adverts have gender neutral language and diverse 
candidate shortlists. 
 
We mitigate unconscious bias during selection processes by having 
diverse and gender-balanced selection panels. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Page 3 

