Starcom Worldwide Ltd.
Gender Pay Gap Report
2017

POWERED BY

Comment from Sue Frogley, 
Publicis Media UK CEO
This  is  the  first  time  all 
UK  companies  with  250 
plus  employees  have  been 
required  by  Government 
to  publish  gender  pay  gap 
data. It is an important move 
and  one  that  I  welcome  as 
it will ensure all companies 

take faster and further action.

The Gender Pay Gap is the difference in average pay 
between men and women in an organisation. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  Gender  Pay  Gap  is 
different  from  Equal  Pay  which  is  defined  as  “the 
right for men and women to be paid the same when 
doing the same, or equivalent, work” (Equality Act, 
2010). 

Within  our  organisation,  men  and  women  who  do 
the  same  job,  are  paid  the  same.  I  am  pleased  to 
say  that  we  also  attract  and  have  strong  female 
representation  right  across  our  business.  However 
as with the rest of the industry, the average pay gap 
is caused by fewer senior women than men at the 
most senior levels, where pay is also at its highest 
(as illustrated in Table 2).

We  are  making  progress  –  in  2016  and  2017  we 
promoted 20% more women than men across Publicis 
Media  and  we  have  recently  launched  Women  in 
Tech, a programme aimed at inspiring and educating 
future leaders in our company, by placing a spotlight 
on successful women in tech. However, there is more 
to be done.

To address this, and to drive greater inclusivity and 
diversity in general, we have committed to a series 
of  initiatives  including  defined  salary  bandings, 
developing and promoting more women into senior 
leadership positions, considering all flexible working 
requests and transforming the workplace to introduce 
a more fulfilling work-life balance (see below for an 
explanation of our initiatives). 

For  2019,  we  are  working  towards  delivering  one 
consolidated Publicis Media UK report that includes 
all  our  agency  data  from  across  Starcom,  Zenith, 
Digitas, Spark Foundry, Blue449 and Performics.

It  is  the  responsibility  of  all  leaders,  from  across 
every  industry  sector,  to  accelerate  change  in  the 
workplace so that we operate in a world where there 
is opportunity, inclusivity and fairness for all. 

After  all,  greater  diversity  I  believe  will  stimulate 
growth  and  longer-term  value  creation  for  all 
businesses. 

Starcom Worldwide Ltd Gender Pay Gap results
Starcom  Worldwide  Ltd  Gender  Pay  Gap  data  for 
2017  shows  a  median  gap  of  12.6%.  The  national 
median  average  is  18.4%.  Starcom  Worldwide  Ltd’s 
mean pay gap is 19.1%.

In addition, average median bonus payments to men 
were  20.0%  higher  than  paid  to  female  colleagues. 
On a mean basis, the gap sits at 54.3%. 

The  percentage  of  male  colleagues  who  receive  a 
bonus is 41.3% compared to 32.9% for females. 

Table 1

Median
Mean

Table 2
% Headcount 
M/F
Upper
Upper Middle
Lower Middle
Lower

Table 3

% who received 
bonus

Salary Pay Gap Bonus Pay Gap
12.6%
19.1%

20.0%
54.3%

Male

55.0%
42.4%
38.9%
39.8%

Male
41.3%

Female

45.0%
57.6%
61.1%
60.2%

Female
32.9%

Our Commitment (Closing the Gap)
Promotion
In 2016 and 2017, we promoted 20% more women 
than men. We will strive to have a focused approach to 
managing our promotions and supporting our future 
female leaders move up through the organisation.

Learning and development
All our employees have access to approximately 300 
courses and are encouraged to sign up and complete 
at  least  24  hours  worth  of  training  a  year.  We pay 
particular  attention  to  management  and  leadership 
development which we believe is key in terms of enabling 
an  inclusive  and  diverse  environment.  Key  courses: 
mandatory  unconscious  bias  training  for  all  current 
and  new  employees,  diversity  and  inclusion  training, 
recruitment masterclass and assertive communications.

Comment  from  Steve  King, 
Executive Sponsor, Publicis 
Groupe  UK  |  Global  CEO, 
Publicis Media
“Equality 
equal 
opportunities  are  not  just 
ambitions  for  the  future 
of  Publicis  Groupe.  It  is 
something we work to make 
a reality, every day, for the 

and 

good of our people and our clients. 

Globally, our supervisory board is made up of equal 
numbers of women and men. In the UK, our agencies 
are  focusing  on  progressing  initiatives  that  will 
help  achieve  a  better  balance  of  gender  at  senior 
levels. We already have strong female leadership in 
Sue Frogley (UK CEO, Publicis Media), Kate Stanners 
(Chairwoman and Global CCO, Saatchi & Saatchi), Carol 
Miller-Repetto  (CEO,  PG  One),  Chaka  Sobhani  (CCO, 
Leo  Burnett  London),  Karen  Buchanan  (Chairman, 
Publicis London / Chief Client Development Officer, 
Publicis UK), Jodie Stranger (Starcom UK Group CEO 
/  President  of  Global  Network  Clients,  EMEA)  and 
Annette  King,  who  will  be  joining  us  soon  as  CEO 
Publicis Groupe UK. 

It is a start, but we are very aware that we still have a 
long way to go – as with many industries, the ratio of 
women to men decreases with seniority. We strongly 
believe in equality within the workplace and that our 
agencies and our industry would be more successful 
with men and women at all levels. 

That’s  why  our  Diversity  &  Inclusion  initiatives, 
led  by  Anne-Gabrielle  Heilbronner,  member  of 
the  Directoire  and  Groupe  Secretary  General,  are 
an  everyday  priority  for  Publicis  Groupe  and  our 
agencies.  These  initiatives,  including  VivaWomen! 
and  the  LGBT  movement  Égalité,  encourage  and 
celebrate diversity and inclusion in all of their forms.”

VivaWomen!
This  is  a  group-wide  initiative  to  connect,  develop 
and empower women across the network. 

Women in Leadership
We will shortly be launching a structured mentoring 
programme which aims to support and develop our 
high potential female leaders into senior positions.

Recruitment
We  are  an  equal  opportunities  employer  and  we 
ensure  that  we  explore  diverse  pools  of  talent  for 
all  our  open  positions.  We  have  recently  launched 
an  Apprenticeship  scheme  aimed  to  include  school 
leavers from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds.

Defined salary bandings
Across  our  organisation  we  have  created  salary 
bandings  in  order  to  achieve  more  parity  and 
fairness within recruitment, promotion, and our pay 
review processes. We have also ceased the practice 
of  asking  candidates  about  their  salary  history  to 
ensure we are awarding a fair salary aligned to the 
level of our roles.

New  maternity  and  shared  parental  scheme  plus 
maternity coaching programme
We  have  recently  reviewed  and  rolled  out  a  new 
maternity  and  shared  parental  leave  policy  which 
offers  16  weeks’  of  full  pay  to  all  employees  with 
12 months’ service. In addition, we are rolling out a 
maternity coaching programme.

Flexible working
In 2018, we will be looking at new ways of flexible 
working.  We  are  committed  to  giving  every 
reasonable flexible request a go. 

We will continue to push the boundaries, with most 
of  our  workforce  currently  mobile,  and  we  will 
work to transform the definition of a workplace and 
introduce a fulfilling work-life blend.

Women in Tech
Our new initiative, Women In Tech, features sessions 
to both educate employees on emerging technologies 
and inspire women to encourage diversity in this field. 
Our  Women  In  Tech  champions  host  these  events, 
which  focus  on  a  single  technology  presented  by 
one of the industry’s female experts. Speakers also 
highlight their journey within the industry and offer 
advice in how to succeed as both tech specialists as 
well as women.
 

