 
 
 
 

for men and women 

MEAN 

5.2% 

MEDIAN 

13.6% 

MEAN 

the Male mean Hourly Rate 

 

MEDIAN 

The Female mean hourly rate is 5.2% higher than 

 
 

Gender Pay Gap Report  
2017/2018 
 
 

 

 
Under new legislation that came into effect in April 2017, UK employers with over 250 employees are required to 
publish  their  gender  pay  gap.  The  gender  pay  gap  is  a  mathematical  indicator  of  the  gender  balance  within  an 
organisation.  It  measures  the  difference  between  the  average  earnings  of  all  male  and  female  employees, 
irrespective of their role or seniority. It is different from equal pay, which is about ensuring that men and women are 
paid the same for carrying out work of equal value.  
 
Tendring  District  Council  is  confident  that  as  a result  of  regular  analysis  and  monitoring,  we  meet  our  equal  pay 
obligations. This includes ensuring that all officers are paid fairly, have equal access to jobs and that employment 
practices are supportive of families and work life balance. 
 
Our  gender  pay  gap  figures  have  been  calculated  in  line  with  the  regulations  set  out  in  the  gender  pay  gap 
reporting  legislation.  This  also  requires  the  publication  of  bonus  pay  details;  however,  this  does  not  apply  to 
Tendring as the Council does not operate bonus schemes for any officers.  
 
We are pleased to report that our gender pay gap is significantly lower than the UK average of 18%. An overview 
of Tendring’s pay gap figures:- 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Differences between gross hourly earnings 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Female median hourly rate is 13.6% higher 

than the Male median Hourly Rate 

 
 
 
 
 

The  analysis  of  our  gender  pay  gap  figures  tells  us  the 
following:- 
 
In the lower quartile (Q1) we have a healthy ratio of male and 
females, with a slight bias towards males. 
 
In  the  lower  middle  quartile  (Q2),  we  have  achieved  virtual 
gender parity with a slight bias towards females. 
 
In  the  upper  middle  quartile  (Q3),  which  comprises  our  part 
qualified  professionals  and  technicians,  we  have  strong 
female representation. 
 
In  the  upper  quartile  (Q4),  which  comprises  both  our  non-
senior  and  senior  management,  again  we  have  a  healthy 
ratio of male and females with a slight bias towards females.  
 
Moving  forward  the  Council’s  pay  gap  will  be  kept  under 
review  and  if  any  substantial  gaps  are  determined  as  the 
Council interprets data; an action plan will be prepared. 
 
 

 

