WEST UC LIMITED 
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT
2017

West 2017 Gender
Pay Gap Report 

This report contains the statutory disclosure of the gender pay gap for 
West UC Limited (hereafter referred to as West in this report) as at 
the date of 5 April 2017.
All UK companies with 250 or more employees are now required to 
publish  their  gender  pay  gap  under  new  legislation  that  came  into 
force in April 2017. Employers have to make public the gap between 
men and women on both a median basis and a mean basis. 
In addition, employers are required to disclose the gender distribution 
by pay quartile – effectively splitting the workforce into four groups 
based on their pay and then demonstrating the proportion of men and 
women in each of those groups.
Pursuant to the requirements stated within section 78 of the Equality 
Act 2010, West is keen to publish the Gender Pay Statistics which 
includes  that  employers  disclose  the  percentage  of  employees  by 
gender receiving bonuses in addition to their basic salary, together 
with the gender gap on bonuses.

“

headshot
for Karen

West wants to encourage new talent and new ideas across the entire enterprise. 
To do this we need to ensure we have teams that reflect the diversity of each 
part of the world in which we operate. We must strive to allow each employee 
the opportunity to build a successful career without compromising personal 
goals, to recognise each employee as unique and to give them a voice. To do 
all of this, we must be open and inclusive, whilst maintaining operations that 
are above all else, fair.

2017  saw  the  launch  of  our  Women  of  West,  with  the  mission  to  empower 
women  across  the  West  Group  Corporation  to  create  and  strengthen 
connections, as well as foster professional and personal growth.

“

Karen Whalen 
Chief Human Resources Officer    

westuc.com

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?

Gender Pay Gap

The gender pay gap is the measure of difference between the hourly rate of pay of male and female employees across the 
organisation (as laid out in the regulations), expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. In Britain there is an overall gender pay 
gap of 18.1%.

Equal Pay

Gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay. Equal pay means that men and women in the same employment performing ‘like 
work’ or ‘work of equal value’ must receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010.

Mean and Median

The gender pay gap reporting regulations require both the mean and the median to be reported. These measures are 
complementary and illustrate different aspects of the distribution of pay within an organisation.

The mean is an overall average of the whole organisation and is therefore directly impacted by any extremely high or low salaries 
at the top or bottom of the sample group. In other words, a small number of individuals have the ability to significantly skew the 
mean and therefore reduce its gravitas.

The median is the midpoint of the sample. Therefore in relation to gender pay, the median shows the middle-most salary of the 
organisation once all salaries are lined up from lowest to highest.

SAMPLE MEAN CALCULATION

SAMPLE MEDIAN CALCULATION
Female hourly rate

775

10 10 15 20 35 40

55

Median = middle of the range = 10

Male hourly rate

*Hypothetical example for illustration purposes only

12

10

15

20 20 25 30 40 50

75

Median = middle of the range = 20

*Hypothetical examples for illustration purposes only

GENDER PAY AT WEST

                                            Mean                     Median

Gender Pay Gap

29.8%                         27.6%

Gender Bonus Gap

58.5%                         29.3%

PAY QUARTILES BY GENDER

FEMALE

MALE

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

30.5%

41%

69.5%

59%

98.5%

The proportion of male employees in 
West receiving a bonus

97.7%

The proportion of female employees in West 
receiving a bonus

Includes all employees whose standard 
hourly rate places them at or below the 

lower quartile

Includes all employees whose standard 

hourly rate places them above the 
lower quartile but at or below the 

median

UPPER MIDDLE

UPPER

41%

59%

30.5%

69.5%

Includes all employees whose standard 

hourly rate places them above the 
median but at or below the upper 

quartile

Includes all employees whose standard 
hourly rate places them above the upper 

quartile

COMPENSATION COMPOSITION
In accordance with the gender pay gap calculation 
guidelines, employee salary which is committed to salary 
sacrifice schemes has not been included in the earnings 
figures. West observes a 99% participation in the UK 
pension scheme through salary sacrifice which therefore 
has very little impact on the gender pay gap due to equal 
distribution across genders. However, the Childcare Voucher 
Scheme through salary sacrifice is more utilised by women 
(62%) than men (38%), with the average salary sacrifice of 
women being 30% higher than the salary sacrifice of men. 
This therefore will have an influence on West’s gender pay 
gap statistics.

WHAT ARE THE UNDERLYING CAUSES OF 
WEST’S GENDER PAY GAP?
West ensures equality in the recruitment practices across 
the organisation and as a result enjoys an average 47/53 % 
split of male to females in our workforce. The Company is 
committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion 
or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/
maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or 
disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for 
the same or equivalent work, regardless of their gender (or 
any other characteristic set out above). As such, it:

•  Disseminates annual online mandatory equality training;

•  Carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals;

• 

Evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to 
ensure a fair structure.

West is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not 
stem from paying men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the 
organisation’s geographic demographic; compensation and 
benefit composition across business functions; combined 
with the roles in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the resulting salaries / packages that these 
roles attract.

GEOGRAPHY
West currently operates in 3 core locations in the UK to 
include 2 offices in the South East and 1 office in the South 
West. These locations carry varying premiums on salary due 
to the differentials in locational cost of living and the South 
East generally has salaries that are 10-15% higher than 
similar roles in the South West for this reason. The South 
East offices cater for 90% of the business’ sales roles; roles 
which attract a higher rate of pay due to their very nature and 
therefore the demographic of the business will have a direct 
impact on West’s gender pay gap.

TEAM COMPOSITIONS
Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than 
women to be in senior roles (especially very senior roles at the top of 
organisations), while women are more likely than men to be in front-
line lower paid roles in the organisation. In addition, men are more 
likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates 
of pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority. Women are also 
more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected 
their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are 
also more likely to work part-time, and many of the jobs that are 
available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively lower paid.

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the 
make-up of West’s workforce, where 71.1% of front-line customer service roles are women, while 78.9% of the relatively 
highly paid sales and senior management roles are held by men and not women.

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows West’s workforce divided into four equal-
sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with the lower quartile including the lowest-paid 25% of employees, of which 69.5% are 
female and the upper quartile covering the highest-paid 25%, of which 69.5% are male. The fact that there are more women in 
the lower paid quartile of West is a major driver of the overall gender pay gap. In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there 
would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each quartile. 

In order to demonstrate the degree of impact that the placement of genders across the business functions have within West, 
additional statistical analysis was conducted to observe the individual gender pay gaps within the following functions: director & 
above; senior management; finance, sales, IT & facilities; operational delivery; human resources and legal. 

This analysis highlighted that within each function, the individual gender pay gap is lower than the UK national average. In fact 
the average of these departmental gender pay gaps combined becomes 10.2%, demonstrating that it is truly the split of genders 
across the different functions and levels and the corresponding salaries that those roles command, that directly impact West’s 
gender pay gap and take it above the national average.

WEST’S GENDER BONUS GAP
The data used to produce the gender bonus gap is taken across the period April 2016 to April 2017. It includes payments to 
relevant employees such as bonuses, incentives, sales commission and financial service awards. The sums paid under these 
categories vary greatly, with total annual individual sales commission figures starting at a value that is more than the highest 
bonus pay out in the data period.

However, a major factor affecting these figures is that bonuses were removed from all non-sales roles during the data period 
and therefore the data set only contains one quarterly bonus payment for that group, not four payments. Whilst 80% of all bonus 
potentials were added to basic salaries, the bonus removal affects the paid bonus data for the year with significant impact to the 
departments that are predominantly female, such as the service functions.

Therefore, West’s gender bonus gap is derived from the comparison of a successful sales force, approximately 70% of which 
are male, with the service teams in receipt of one quarterly bonus payment, approximately 70% of which are female, producing a 
significantly inflated gender bonus pay gap for West.

WHAT IS WEST DOING TO ADDRESS ITS GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap is not a subject about which West is complacent, and the company is committed to taking the actions that it 
can to reduce the gap. However, West also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct 
control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make.

The steps that West has identified to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce include the following:

•  Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities for action, in 2018 West 

plans to introduce gender monitoring to understand: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited;

the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions;

the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for leaving;

the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band;

take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation;

the proportion of men and women who return to their original job after a period of maternity or other parental 
leave; and

the proportion of men and women still in post a year on from a return to work after a period of maternity or other 
parental leave.

•  Reviewing the flexible working policy: West’s flexible working policy is available to employees in all areas and levels 
of the organisation, regardless of their role and level of seniority, and that flexible working need not be limited to part-time 
working. However, flexible working in practice and the question of where the work goes is a key point to review in the 
enabling of the organisation to truly become agile.

•  Supporting parents: West will develop new guidelines for managers on supporting employees prior to, during and on 

return from maternity and other parental leave, to be backed up by training for all line managers and senior managers. 

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years before some have any impact 
at all. In the meantime, West is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap 
and the progress that it is making.

In the coming year, West is also committed to:

•  Reviewing its policy on bonus and commission payments;

•  Reviewing the training provided to management in 

regards to allocating pay awards;

•  Creating an action plan targeted to review and improve 
where possible the balance of genders within each pay 
quartile.

DECLARATION
We confirm that West’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet 
the requirements of the Regulations. The calculations, data and assertions 
contained in this report have been fully assured by the West Legal, 
Compensation and Human Resources teams, who have confirmed that the 
methodology provided in The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information 
Regulations 2017) has been applied correctly.

I, Amrik Mann, Senior Director Human Resources, confirm that the information 
in this statement is accurate.

westuc.com  | hrservicesmea@west.com

