 

 

St Cloud Care Gender Pay Gap Report 

At St Cloud Care, we are committed to promoting diversity and gender equality. We offer all of 
our staff the same growth and development opportunities within a positive, open and inclusive 
environment.  

The  gender  pay  gap  looks  at  the  difference  in  the  average  earnings  received  by  male  and 
female employees, irrespective of their role or seniority.  It is therefore distinct from equal pay, 
which compares men and women carrying out equivalent work.   

St  Cloud  Care  overall  workforce  is  81.9% female  and  18.1%  male.  This  profile  is  the  industry 
norm  particularly  across  the  care  sector  and  there  is  nothing  to  indicate  that  it  has  any 
significant influence over the gender pay gap. 

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the same job.  However, the 
greater  proportion  of  men  than  women  in  our  senior  executive  positions  affects  a  gender  pay 
gap. 

Being a place where people love to work is a must. We pride ourselves on promoting a diverse 
and  inclusive  culture.  We  embrace  our  differences,  knowing  that  they  make  us  stronger  and 
reflect the needs of our customers. We know there’s work to do to close the gender pay gap. As 
a  first  step,  we’re  committed  to  developing  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  reasons  we  have  a 
gender  pay  gap,  and  where  appropriate,  defining  and  implementing  appropriate  action to  help 
us make positive changes. 

The statistics reported below are based on the data taken on 5 April 2017. 

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap 

The  mean  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  average  hourly  pay  of  men  and  women.   The 
median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly pay of men and 
women.  It takes all earnings in the sample,  lines them up in order from lowest  to highest and 
picks out the middle earnings. 

 

Gender Pay Gap 

Mean 
4.56% 

Median 
2.61% 

National Average 

18.10% 

 

 

 

 

The main reasons underlying our small mean and median gender pay gaps are that there are 
more  women  than  men  in  our  lower  paid  roles  and  at  all  leadership  levels  in  St  Cloud  Care 
except  at  the  senior  executive  level  where  there  are  a  greater  number  of  men  than  women. 
Therefore  the  mean  pay  gap,  in  particular,  is  skewed  by  a  small  number  of  men  on  senior 
executive salaries. 

The median pay gap is less influenced by outliers and therefore is more representative of our workforce 
and at 2.61% is significantly below the national average of 18.10%. 

Proportion of employees receiving Bonus Payment 

Male 

88.06% 

 

Mean and Median Bonus Pay Gap 
 
Bonus Pay Gap 

Mean 

-33.83% 

 

Female 

94.74% 

Median 

4.35% 

Proportion of Males and Females in Pay Quartiles 
The  number  of  males  and  females  in  each  quartile  of  their  pay  distribution  is  shown  in  Table 
below: 
Quartile 
Upper 

Female 

21.74% 

Male 

78.26% 

Upper Middle 

22.58% 

77.42% 

92.47% 
79.57% 

7.53% 
20.43% 

Lower Middle 
Lower 
 
 
Actions to balance our gender pay gap  
 
Our aspiration is to reduce the St Cloud Care gender pay gap over time and to continue to be 
placed  well  compared  to  sector  and  national  benchmarks.    We  believe  the  St  Cloud  Care 
gender  pay  gap  is  not  due  to  a  pay  policy  issue  or  an  equal  pay  issue,  we  have  a  standard 
approach  to  pay  which  applies  to  all  our  jobs  and  we  use  a  robust  benchmarking  process  to 

define  salaries,  alongside  a  review  of  market  rates  and  experience.    We  will  focus  on  our 
recruitment and  
 
Learning  &  Development  practises  as  areas  where  we  can  revisit  our  current  approach  and 
consider appropriate actions and strive to set a good example by: 

 

  Constantly reviewing our hiring practices and the workplace environment to ensure not 
only  women, but  all  those  in  under-represented  groups  have  equal  opportunities  to 
progress. 

  Encouraging  managers  to  consider  where  possible  appropriate  flexible  working 

arrangements at all levels across the organisation, especially in managerial positions. 

  Reviewing  our  reward  processes  and  pay  structures  to  ensure  consistency  in  their 

approach and application. 

  Progression/development tactics. 

 

 

Arnon Rubinstein 

Director 

