 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

Published March 2018, reporting on the position as of 31st March 2017 

Sharnbrook Academy Federation, in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulation 2017, and as an employer of more than 250 employees, is required to 
publish information to measure and report on the gender pay gap in the organisation. This is as of 
31st March 2017.  

The overall gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean (average) or median 
(actual midpoint) hourly rate of pay of male and female employees. 

Sharnbrook Academy Federation (SAF) has five primary and secondary academies, the SAF Teaching 
School Alliance and SAF Pilgrim Partnership Initial Teacher Training. At the time of reporting, the 
Academy Trust was made up of two lower schools, three middle schools and an upper school, as well 
as the SAF Teaching School Alliance and SAF Pilgrim Partnership Initial Teacher Training. 

The results of these statutory calculations are as follows: 

Snapshot date – 31st March 2017 

 

Difference in the mean hourly 

Difference in the median 

pay 

26.52% 

hourly pay 

51.79% 

Pay gap % difference male to 
female 

 

Mean and Median Bonus pay gap  

No bonuses were paid to staff 

 

Quartile 1 

Quartile 2 

Quartile 3 

Quartile 4 

Male (% males to all 
employees in quartile) 
Female (% females to 
all employees in 
quartile 
Average pay gap –  
Diff in pay  (female to 
male) 

Lower 

Lower middle 

Upper Middle 

13 

87 

18 

81 

23 

77 

 

Upper 
40 

60 

£0.06 

-£0.58 

-£0.16 

-£1.95 

 
Total employees – Male 40% Female 60% 

The Academy Trust at the snapshot date was made up of two lower schools, three middle schools 
and an upper school. Total of full payment employees -  

Lower School employees – 64 
Middle School employees – 216 
Upper School employees - 226 

Supporting Statement 

The overall gap between male and female employees is higher than the national average. This is 
partly because we encourage flexible working and we have a high number of females working in 
part-time support roles, with the proportion of women in the lower quartiles high because of this. 
This is reflected across the education sector generally, especially in primary education. The overall 
gender pay gap figure for the Trust therefore reflects the composition of our workforce, as opposed 
to gender pay inequalities. 

All job roles are evaluated to ensure fair pay in each role and are advertised with no gender bias. 

Pay scales for teachers and support staff are set nationally and not at school or Trust-level and the 
Trust adheres to national pay scales for both teachers and support staff.  SAF operates pay 
progression policies. 

Sharnbrook Academy Federation is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity and 
choice for employees and supports the fair treatment of all staff irrespective of gender. SAF is an 
equal opportunities employer and does not discriminate in any way (as defined by the Equalities Act 
2010 and other relevant legislation) regarding recruitment, performance management and 
employee career development opportunities. All posts are aligned to agreed nationally agreed pay 
scales and our male and female staff are paid within the same band for the same job role. 

The Gender Pay Gap reporting is at a high level non-adjusted indicator; our workforce is 
predominately female therefore the gap is significantly affected by this. The majority of roles in the 
AT are part-time aligning to the academic year this impacts on calculation of the hourly pay rate and 
is a factor that influences the applicants to these roles in the schools. 

The overall gender pay gap therefore reflects the workforce composition rather than pay 
inequalities. 

However, the Trust will continue to review from this baseline data on an ongoing basis, in the last 
year the trust has implemented many development programmes for all staff at all levels for those 
aspiring to middle or senior leadership. 

I confirm that the above information has been prepared from our payroll data on the snapshot 
date and fairly represents the Gender Pay Gap information for Sharnbrook Academy Federation. 
 

Iain Denning – Executive Principal and Accounting Officer 

 

  

 

 

 

 

