At Topps Tiles we believe that having great people helps to create a great company. To successfully provide our customers with great inspiration, 
advice and service on their projects we aim to recruit, develop and retain diverse teams of people. We are committed to ensuring that all our roles 
are filled by the best candidate, irrelevant of gender, background or any other factor. 

  

       

What is gender pay? 
Gender  pay  gap  legislation  requires  any  employing  entity  with  250  employees  or  more  to 
publish  their  gender  pay  for  these  employees.  At  Topps  Tiles,  we  have  one  main  employing 
entity - Topps Tiles UK Ltd – which covers all our store employees (c1,700) which we legally 
have  to  report  on,  however,  all  our  employees  (c2,000)  are  part  of  Topps  Tiles  plc  which  we 
are also choosing to report on here. 
 
Gender pay is different from equal pay. Gender pay compares the average earnings of all 
male colleagues versus all female colleagues, irrespective of their individual role or seniority, 
whereas equal pay compares the pay a man and a woman both receive when doing the same 
or  similar  job.  At  Topps  Tiles,  we  review  all  reward  packages  regularly  to  ensure  we  have 
fairness across all colleagues. 

Our gender 
pay gap of 

11.0% is 

significantly 

lower than the 
UK average* 

(18.1%) 

Our gender pay gap 
The difference in the hourly pay for women compared to men 
in the pay period that included the snapshot date (5th April 
2017) 
 

 

Topps Tiles plc  Topps Tiles UK Ltd 

Our gender bonus gap 
The difference in all bonuses received in the 12 months prior to the 
snapshot date (5 April 2017), by women and men employed at 5 
April 2017. 

 

Topps Tiles plc  Topps Tiles UK Ltd 

Mean bonus pay gap 

Median bonus pay gap 

34.9% 

20.1% 

15.5% 

19.6% 

% of men / women 
receiving a bonus 

M = 93.2% 
F = 89.2% 

M = 94.0% 
F = 90.8% 

 

 

Pay quartiles 
The pay rates ranked from the highest to lowest and split into four equal sized 
groups, with the percentage of men and women in each quartile. 

Topps Tiles plc 

Topps Tiles UK Ltd 

16.4% 

21.1% 

22.5% 

26.2% 

83.6% 

78.9% 

77.5% 

73.8% 

13.1% 

86.9% 

21.1% 

21.9% 

25.8% 

78.9% 

78.1% 

74.2% 

Upper

Upper Middle Lower Middle

Lower

Upper

Upper MiddleLower Middle

Lower

M F

M F

Addressing our gender pay gap 
The nature of our business has historically attracted more male colleagues than 
the overall retail sector, however over the past few years we have taken several 
steps to further improve our employee diversity by: 
 

Defining and launching our employer brand - which includes case 
studies from a diverse mix of colleagues to ensure we are attracting a 
variety of male and female candidates from all backgrounds 
Improving the L&D support – we help all colleagues to develop the 
technical skills required for their role meaning previous DIY or product 
experience is not required  
Reviewing and aligning our reward structures - for Service Specialists 
and introducing base pay structures for Assistant Manager and Store 
Manager roles, whilst also maintaining our market leading bonus and 
incentive opportunities for all colleagues  

  Ongoing improvements in our working practices and policies 

Mean pay gap 

11.0% 

Median pay gap 

3.9% 

6.1% 

4.1% 

Our gender pay gap of 11.0% is significantly lower that 
the UK average* (18.1%). However, we still have a gap 
and this is influenced by the demographic of our 
colleague population: 
 
1.  The proportion of men at more senior levels 

within our organisation 
 

 

27% of our male colleagues are in a role of 
Store Manager or above vs 19% of our female 
colleagues 
88% of our Store Managers are male vs 76% 
of our Service Specialists (more commonly 
known as Sales Advisors who account for 
c1,000 of our c2,000 employee headcount) 
 

2.  The proportion of part time colleagues who are 

female 
 

28% of all female colleagues are P/T vs 16% of 
all male colleagues 
 

3.  Strong colleague retention in more senior roles  
  Male Store Managers have an average length 

of service of 8.6 years vs 6.5 for female 

  Our biggest revenue stores are 84% male and 

length of service in these stores average 5.6 
years (male) vs 2.5 years (female) 

Bonus and incentives are an important part of our reward package 
we offer and all our colleagues have the opportunity to earn 
market leading bonus and incentives, irrelevant of their role. Our 
bonus gap figures are influenced by: 
 
1.  The number of females vs males in senior roles. Similar 

2. 

to many companies, our bonus opportunity increases 
with seniority 
 
Individual sales and store performance. Colleague 
bonuses and incentives are directly linked to how they 
and their store perform 
 

3.  Part time colleagues and new hires. The calculations are 

not pro-rated for hours worked, or length of service in 
the period year and it therefore takes time to build and 
realise their bonus and incentive opportunity 

*ONS (October 2016) 

supporting all colleagues: 
 

Focus on colleague wellbeing - including defining our wellbeing 
expectations and implementing actions to further improve store 
working environments, working hours and flexibility, and manual 
handling 
Continuing to offer retail leading maternity/adoption/shared 
parental leave support - to help colleagues take time out of work to 
raise a family. We also offer colleagues the option to take a further 
week’s unpaid holiday in addition to their existing holiday entitlement 
Launch of a new core hours policy for Support Office colleagues - 
enabling flexibility in start and finish times while maintaining excellent 
levels of support to our store teams 

 

 

 
All these steps have helped to increase our female representation across our 
business, for example: 
 
 

23% of our colleagues are female (up from 21% prior year) 
69% of our store teams have at least one female in store (up from 66% 
prior year) 
Increasing the number of females in our senior leadership roles 
 

 

Mark Taylor – Director of Human Resources, Topps Tiles 

