HOTEL CHOCOLAT

GENDER PAY

REPORT

INTRODUCTION FROM ANGUS THIRLWELL, CEO

It’s our mission to make the best chocolates on the planet. We’re as committed to this as we 
are to living by our values of originality, authenticity and ethics across our business. Our deep 
sense of fairness extends to our employees, cocoa farmers, customers and future generations. 

We are confident that all employees, male and female, are paid fairly for the valuable roles they 
fulfil across Hotel Chocolat. 

Angus Thirlwell, CEO and Co-founder, Hotel Chocolat 

HOTEL CHOCOLAT GENDER PAY REPORT
WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap measures the difference between earnings of men compared to the earnings 
of women, and is not to be confused with equal pay, which is the legal requirement that men and 
women are paid the same for the same work.  

At Hotel Chocolat we strive to create a working environment in which all individuals are able to 
make the best use of their skills and talents, free from discrimination or harassment, and in which 
all decisions are based on merit. 
We are confident that all of our employees are paid fairly and consistently for the same roles.

Employee mix by gender

33%

67%

Female

Male

WHO WORKS FOR HOTEL CHOCOLAT?
We are growing all the time but at the date of the report we had 1364 permanent employees. 
Overall 67% of our employees are female and 33% are male:
 
It’s important to us to be able to offer flexible working options, this is particularly true in retail 
stores where we offer a wide range of roles and large number of part-time opportunities. 
Not only does this suit the differing circumstances of our employees, it also allows us to attract 
individuals from a diverse talent pool. Across the business the proportion of women working in 
part-time roles is higher than men; 58% of women work part-time versus 31% of men:

Female
58% work part time

Male
31% work part time

42%

58%

31%

69%

Part time

Full time

SUMMARY OF RESULTS: YEAR ENDED APRIL 2017
GENDER PAY GAP
We are confident that all of our employees are paid fairly for the roles they fulfil. 
The gender pay gap is reported below:

 

 

 

 

 
 
Hotel Chocolat Gender Pay Gap   
National Average (per ONS) 
 

 
 
 

Mean1  
 
20% 
18% 
 

Median2
2%
9%

 1. The mean gap divides the total pay of all women by the total number of hours worked and 
     compares this with the total pay of all men divided by the number of hours worked, this gap is 20%. 

 2. The median gap ranks all women from lowest to highest paid, and all men from lowest to 
     highest paid and then compares the middle woman with the middle man, this gap is 2%. 

The majority of our employees work in retail stores, where we have a higher proportion of 
female employees and rates of pay tend to be lower than for head office roles. Our hourly 
rates are consistent for the same role, driving just a 2% median gender pay gap.

GENDER BONUS GAP
Everybody working for Hotel Chocolat is included in our company bonus scheme. 74% of 
women received a bonus in 2016-17 and 71% of men received a bonus:

 

74%
Female

71%
Male

Whereas the gender pay gap compares the hourly pay rate for men and women, the bonus 
gap compares the total bonus value received in the year. Bonuses are paid as a fixed percent 
of annual earnings, so those working more hours will receive a larger bonus. For example, a 
person working 30 hours per week on the same hourly rate as a person working 20 hours 
per week will receive a bonus that is 50% larger. This means the bonus gap for Hotel Chocolat 
is 42%, while the median gap is 40%.

 

 
 
Gender Bonus Gap   

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Mean   
 
42% 

Median
40%

Our gender bonus gap exists because our bonus scheme includes the whole business, therefore 
the pool of people it takes into account is very diverse. When working out the gender bonus gap, 
the required calculation does not take into account the different levels of part-time roles for men 
and women. Therefore the gap looks large, but in reality bonuses are absolutely consistent for 
men and women in equivalent roles, working the same number of hours.

GENDER DEMOGRAPHIC PER PAY QUARTILE

We are required to report the proportion of males and females in four equal sized quartile 
groups. Each pay quartile includes one quarter of the total workforce, sorted in ascending 
order of pay. We have more women than men in all four quartiles, but the ratio of women 
to men is not as high in the top quartile. 

Lower pay quartile

Lower middle quartile

Upper middle quartile

Upper pay quartile

20%

34%

30%

47%

80%

66%

70%

53%

Female

Male

OUR COMMITMENTS
We believe that gender pay is just one important element of a broader agenda to encourage 
diversity.  We strive to create a working environment in which all individuals are able to make 
best use of their skills and talents, free from discrimination or harassment, and in which all 
decisions are based on merit. We are committed to a sustainable, balanced agenda which 
promotes diversity and inclusion across the business.

DECLARATION
We confirm that Hotel Chocolat’s gender pay calculations are accurate and meet the 
requirements of the regulations.

Angus Thirlwell, CEO and Co-founder, Hotel Chocolat 

