 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

31st March 2017 

 

(published December 2017)  

 

1.0  Introduction  

 

In 2017 new regulations were introduced under the Equality Act 2010 requiring 
employers of more than 250 staff to calculate and publish information about the 
gender pay gap in their organisation.  

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average earnings of men and 
women. As a concept it is different from “equal pay” which deals with any pay 
differences between men and women who carry out the same or similar jobs or jobs 
of equal value.   

In previous years we have reported on equal pay among support staff but have not 
included Control or operational staff as their pay and allowances are governed by 
national terms and conditions of employment agreed collectively through the 
National Joint Council for Local Authority Fire and Rescue Services as laid out in the 
Scheme of Conditions of Service (or “Grey Book”) 

Calculating, analysing and reporting on the gender pay gap can provide a valuable 
measure of equality in the workplace.  It is a long standing phenomenon globally and 
varies by occupation, age group and working patterns.  It can highlight any difference 
in men’s and women’s participation in work of different types and levels and how 
effectively talent is being maximised.   

The gender pay gap regulations require us to include all employees and to calculate 
a number of gender pay gap measures with reference to all staff.  However where it 
has been helpful to explain or further explore this pay gap, reference has been made 
to the pay (and gaps) between different groups of staff.  

The Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Pay Policy statement is reviewed and 
updated annually and published on our website. Its purpose is to provide 
transparency to the pay policy adopted by Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service. 
The policy states:   
 
“The most recent pay policy (February 17) reflects the different roles, duties and 
responsibilities undertaken by service employees. This is reflected in pay 
differentials between different groups of workers and between workers in the 
same pay group. The pay bands established are based on nationally applied role 
maps (operational employees) or grading bands established through a job 
evaluation process (support employees).  
 
Pay Policy reflects adherence to the principle of “equal pay for work of equal 
value”. The Service will report on any gender pay gap annually as required by the 
Equality Act 2010 commencing April 2018 and is committed to taking relevant 
action to reduce any gender pay gaps.  
 

In applying its policy, the Authority will work to eliminate any elements which 
may, directly or indirectly, discriminate unfairly on the grounds of sex, race, 
colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, age, marital status, having 
dependants, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, religion or belief, trade 
union activity, disability or any other factors. Part-time workers receive the same 
pay and remuneration as full-time workers undertaking the same job role on a pro-
rata basis.”  

 

2.0 Why might a pay gap exist and what is the national gender pay gap?  

Factors contributing to the GPG are complex. Social pressures and norms influence 
gender roles and often shape the types of occupations and career paths which men 
and women follow, and therefore their level of pay. Women are also more likely than 
men to work part-time and to take time out from their careers for family reasons 
which may affect their progression to higher paid posts.  
 
Factors contributing to the gender pay gap may include:  

  Occupational segregation.  Fewer women go into STEM (science, technology, 

engineering and maths) professions which tend to be higher paid.  
 

  More women than men work in caring professions (carers; teaching 

assistants; health care) which are relatively poorly paid.  
 

  Lack of well- paid, part-time or flexible work.  

 

  Lack of senior female role models in some organisations may mean women 
are less likely to progress to senior levels – even though they may want to.  
 

  Unconscious bias and discrimination – including assumptions about mothers 

not wanting or aspiring to promotion etc. 1 

 

The Annual Survey of Household Earnings (ASHE) provides the most recent 
analysis of median gender pay gap.   For all occupations and taking full-time and 
part-time employees together, the median gender pay gap was 18.1% in 2016. 

Labour Force Survey data is also used by EHRC in their gender pay gap report. This 
indicates the mean gender pay gap derived from Labour Force Survey (LFS) was 
10% in 2014 having fallen from 27% in 1993.   

3.0 Required calculations 

The Gender Pay Gap Information regulations 2017 provide detailed definitions of 
which employees should be included; ordinary pay; allowances and bonuses; 
meaning of “hourly” rate of pay; and how to calculate employees’ weekly working 
hours. Local Government Association guidance has also provided examples of how 
this might be interpreted in cases where no regular weekly hours are worked (as is 
the case for on-call firefighters).  The nature of on-call firefighters work and the way 
they are remunerated (annual retainer fee proportionate to the amount of availability 
they give; hourly rate for responding to incidents; disturbance allowance etc.) means 
it has been impossible this year to accurately calculate the exact hours of work in the 
reference period and therefore actual hourly rate of pay. We have used their 
contractual hours which cover drill (training) nights. We acknowledge that this has 
the effect of inflating the hourly rate of pay but have treated each on-call employee in 
the same way.  As their actual hours are dictated by emergency incidents we are 
satisfied that this does not give rise to any gender disparity.  

                                            
1Equality and Human Rights Commission research report 109 “The gender pay gap”  August 2017  

The following calculations are required by the regulations and explained below. They 
are all expressed in percentages.    

3.1  Mean Gender Pay Gap  

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees (regulation 8).  

 A mean average involves adding up all the numbers and dividing the result by how 
many numbers were listed.  

3.2  Median gender pay gap  

The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full- pay relevant employees (regulation 9).   

A median average involves listing all numbers in numerical order. The median 
average is the middle number when there is an odd number of results.  If there is an 
even number of results, the median will be the mean of the two central numbers.  

3.3  Mean bonus gender pay gap 

The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and 
that paid to female relevant employees.  

3.4  Median bonus gender pay gap  

The difference between the median bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and 
that paid to female relevant employees (regulation 11). 

Regulation 10b requires inclusion of “any remuneration that …….relates to profit 
sharing, productivity, performance, incentive or commission”.  

Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service have interpreted regulation 10 (b) to apply 
to:    

  Productivity:  

o  resilience payments paid to operational staff for providing additional 

operational cover under certain conditions.  
 

  Performance:  

o  performance related supplements paid to Area Commanders and 

Group Commanders.  
 

o  honorariums potentially payable to any staff group member as a one-

off payment in recognition of particularly good work or effort.  

 
Incentive:  

 

o  Continuous professional development (CPD) payments to operational 
staff. This is not an automatic payment but dependent on evidence of 
CPD – hence interpreted as an incentive in accordance with LGA 
advisory bulletin 644 (January 17).   
 

3.5  Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 

The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay 
(regulation 12).  

 

3.6   Proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band 

The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the lower, lower 
middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands (regulation 13).    

 

4.0 Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service’s Gender Pay Gap  

Eighty-one percent of Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue Service’s employees (521) 
are operational and Control firefighters and officers, including principal fire officers.  
Their employment is governed by national terms and conditions of employment 
agreed collectively by the National Joint Council for Local Authority Fire and Rescue 
Services as laid out in the Scheme of Conditions of Service ( “Grey Book”) which 
lays out duties of different roles (role maps).  

The National Joint Council for Principal Fire Officers of Local Authority Fire Brigades 
‘Constitution and scheme of conditions of service‘, known as the “Gold Book” directs 
the terms and conditions of employment for Principal Fire Officers . Both “Grey Book” 
and “Gold Book” include rates of pay, allowances and bonuses.  

The terms and conditions of support staff are governed by the National Joint Council 
for Local Government Services and all support posts are job evaluated in 
accordance with the Hay scheme.   

4.1   Mean, median, pay and bonuses   

Difference in median hourly rate of pay between men and women  
Difference in mean hourly rate of pay between men and women 
Difference in median bonus pay 
Difference in mean bonus pay 
Proportion of male employees who received bonus pay  
Proportion of female employees who received bonus pay  
 

 
 

 

13.9%  
18.6% 
0.00% 
0.57% 
61.4% 
26.0% 

At 13.9% the median gender pay gap is below the national figure for all occupations 
and employees (18.1%).  The mean pay gap at 18.6% is however relatively high 
compared to Labour Force Survey data (10% in 2014).  While the gap in bonus pay 
is insignificant, the proportion of men in receipt of bonus pay is considerably higher 
than the proportion of women.     

 

4.2 Quartile Pay Bands  

Proportion of male employees in the lower quartile pay band 
 
Proportion of female employees in the lower quartile pay band 
 
Proportion of male employees in the lower middle quartile pay 
band 
Proportion of female employees in the lower middle quartile 
pay band 
Proportion of male employees in the upper middle quartile pay 
band 

67% 

33% 

76% 

24% 

84% 

 
Proportion of female employees in the upper middle quartile 
pay band 
 
Proportion of male employees in the upper quartile pay band 
 
Proportion of female employees in the upper quartile pay band 
 

16% 

92% 

8% 

Given the proportion of women across all roles and posts is 21%, the distribution of 
women across pay bands is uneven with a high proportion in lower quartile and a low 
proportion in the upper quartile.   

 

5.0 Possible reasons for gender pay gap in Cambridgeshire Fire and Rescue 
Service  

 

5.1 Workforce Composition  

The workforce is predominantly male (79%) and a high proportion of these (89%) are 
operational staff meaning their terms and conditions are different from support staff – 
which has a higher proportion of women (56%). The operational workforce 
(excluding Control) is 94% male.  Operational and control staff (both governed by 
NJC terms and conditions as set out in Grey Book and Gold Book) are 12% female 
and 88% male.   

The lack of gender diversity among operational staff is a national challenge for Fire 
and Rescue Services and has a historical and societal context.  There were no 
women firefighters until 1978 in the UK (1984 in Cambridgeshire) and the occupation 
is still perceived by some as a “male” one requiring exceptional physical abilities.  
Research points to a lack of awareness about the role and skills required of a 
firefighter which in turn may create barriers for women in considering this as a 
career.2   

Cambridgeshire FRS has taken various forms of positive action to attract women to 
operational roles since the early 2000s and most recently developed a positive 
action strategy and work plan in 2014 covering long term and short term approaches 
to improving workforce diversity. Low turnover among whole time career firefighters 
has meant the pace of improvement has been slow but this is steadily improving and 
remains a priority for the Service. 

Reviewing and improving workplace facilities for women along with addressing their 
uniform and personal protective equipment needs are some of the steps that have 
been taken in the past, while improving flexible working practices is currently a 
feature of our equality work plan.  

 

5.2 Different conditions of service  

Operational and control staff (both governed by NJC terms and conditions as set out 
in Grey Book and Gold Book) are 12% female and 88% male.  The nature of 
                                            
2 London Fire Brigade/Future Thinking Research report Dec 16  

operational work (shift based, providing 24/7 cover for operational incidents) means 
a number of allowances are paid (e.g. for different operational duty systems; for 
“acting up” or temporary promotion to a different role) to operational staff.   There are 
16 different allowances paid to staff in total and while five of these apply to support 
staff posts, the majority are paid to operational staff (including Control) and so 
influences the gender pay gap.  

The proportion of men receiving a bonus is much higher than women which may also 
contribute to the size of the pay gap and is affected by the occupational segregation 
as described above. Bonuses include continuous professional development payment 
(in “Grey” book terms and conditions of Service) and resilience payments which are 
aimed at delivering operational resilience and again impacts only operational staff.  

To understand this better the pay gap for support staff and operational staff has been 
calculated separately (although not required by gender pay gap regulations).   

 

Description  

All staff   WT 

operational 
staff  
<1% 

13.9%  

On-call 
operational 
staff  
1.4% 

Control 
staff  

Support 
staff  

<-1% 

8% 

18.6% 

10.5%  

2.0% 

-8% 

12% 

0.00% 

0.00% 

0.57% 

23% 

61.4% 

78% 

5.5% 

6.7% 

60% 

-21% 

-20% 

0.00 

-24% 

40% 

7% 

26.0% 

38% 

40% 

63% 

3% 

Difference in median hourly 
rate of pay between men and 
women  
Difference in mean hourly rate 
of pay between men and 
women 
Difference in median bonus 
pay 
Difference in mean bonus pay
 
Proportion of male employees 
who received bonus pay 
 
Proportion of female 
employees who received 
bonus pay  
 

 

 

 

These data show the pay gaps for support staff are greater than for operational staff 
which cannot be explained by the different conditions of service or workforce 
composition.  However with regards to bonuses, there is a pay gap in favour of 
women in support roles which is the opposite situation to wholetime operational roles 
where the difference is similar but in favour of men.  This can partly be attributed to 
the high proportion of men working in operational roles but does not explain the 
differences seen in support posts.  

Control room staff are predominantly women (87%) and at management level 90% of 
managers are women which explains the pay gaps in favour of women.     

The pay gaps for on-call staff are generally lower, however there is still a pay gap in 
bonus payments and the proportion of on-call staff receiving bonuses favours men.   

 

6.0 Recommendations  

There is enough of a gender pay gap across all staff groups to warrant further 
investigation.   

It is recommended that:   

  Existing work, articulated in the equality strategy, to increase number of 

women in operational firefighting posts and men into Control posts and to 
improve their retention, continues.  
 

  An equal pay audit of all employees including the allocation of bonuses and 

allowances be carried out in 2018/19.   
 

  A review of bonus payments and allowances be carried out with the aim of 

ensuring consistency in application.   

  

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

