 

 

Newport Wafer Fab Limited 

Gender Pay Report – March 2018 

 
Background - Newport Wafer Fab Limited 
 
Newport  Wafer  Fab  Limited  is  situated  in  Newport,  South  Wales,  developing  and  manufacturing  internal 
integrated circuits and discreet products for the analog and mixed signal markets. 
Newport  Wafer  Fab  Limited  has  a  strong  legacy  of  technology  and  process  development;  with  a  mission  to 
become the World's first integrated Silicon and Silicon on Compound Semiconductor Foundry.  
 
Newport Wafer Fab Limited was established on 29 September 2017 by Neptune 6, having previously traded as 
IR  Newport  Limited  under  the  ownership  of  global  Infineon  Technologies.  With  a  history  since  1982,  Newport 
Wafer Fab Limited employs in excess of 250 employees within the UK all based at our site In Newport, South 
Wales.  
 
Context 
 
In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, Newport Wafer Fab 
Limited is required to publish an annual gender pay gap report (as detailed herein). 
The  gender  pay  gap  report  below  is  based  on  a  snapshot  date  of  5  April  2017  and  the  previous  12 
months in respect of bonus payments.  
 
Our reporting data is as follows: 
 

•  We employ 276 men and 110 women.  

• 

• 

70%  of  our  male  employees  are  in  technical,  science,  engineering  roles.  In  turn,  36%  of  our  female 
employees are in such roles.  

30%  of  our  male  employees  are  in  indirect  operational  or  manufacturing  roles.  In  turn,  64%  of  our 
females are in such roles.  

•  The mean gender pay gap for Newport Wafer Fab Limited is 29.40%. 

•  The median gender pay gap for Newport Wafer Fab Limited is 33.08%. 

•  The mean gender bonus gap for Newport Wafer Fab Limited is 64.52%. 

•  The median gender bonus gap for Newport Wafer Fab Limited is 26.19%. 

•  The proportion of male employees in Newport Wafer Fab Limited receiving a bonus is 99.64% and the 

proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 100%. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Newport Wafer Fab Limited 

Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK- Tel +44 (0)1633 810121 - Fax +44 (0)1633 810820 

Registered in England with company number 4338966, VAT number GB276063592 

Registered Office: Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK 

www.newportwaferfab.com  

 

 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band 

Males 

Females 

Description 

-  Lower 

A 
Quartile 

56% 

44% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or 
below the lower quartile 

B 

C 

D 

60% 

40% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above 
the lower quartile but at or below the median 

75% 

25% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above 
the median but at or below the upper quartile 

95% 

5% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above 
the upper quartile 

 
The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
What are the underlying causes of Newport Wafer Fab Limited’s gender pay gap? 
 
Newport  Wafer  Fab  Limited  is  committed  to  the  principle  of  equal  opportunities  and  equal  treatment  for  all 
employees,  regardless  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age,  marriage  or  civil  partnership,  pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual  orientation,  gender  reassignment  or disability.  It has  a clear  policy  of  paying  employees  equally  for  the 
same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above).  
As such, it: 

• 

carries out pay and benefits reviews at regular intervals 

•  Evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

Newport  Wafer  Fab  Limited  is  confident  that  its  gender  pay  gap  does  not  stem  from  paying  men  and  women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 
 
As is common across the UK economy, our workforce reflects the following societal influences and patterns: 
 

•  There are a higher proportion of men, compared to women, in more senior roles - especially very senior 
roles at the top of the organisation. In turn, women are more likely than men to be in front-line roles at 
the lower end of the organisation. This is primarily due to the following factors below; 

•  men  are  more  likely  to  be  in  technical  and  science-related  roles  (which  we  primarily  employ),  which 

attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority; 

•  women  are  more  likely  than  men  to  have  had  breaks  from  work  that  have  affected  their  career 

progression, for example to bring up children; 

 

Newport Wafer Fab Limited 

Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK- Tel +44 (0)1633 810121 - Fax +44 (0)1633 810820 

Registered in England with company number 4338966, VAT number GB276063592 

Registered Office: Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK 

www.newportwaferfab.com  

 

 
•  women are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available on a part-time 

basis are relatively the lower paid; 

•  Men tend to have longer continuous service and therefore achieve higher salaries over time. Women 
tend to have a shorter period of continuous service, and therefore do not always reach the higher salary 
levels; 

•  Men tend to work for longer, and older employees tend to earn more. Nationally, there is a wider pay 
disparity between male and female employees aged over 40 years. As we have a predominantly older 
workforce, we in turn employ more men with longer continuous service; 

•  Our  high  employee  retention  rates  act  as  an  obstacle  for  us  to  attract  a  younger  and/or  female 

employee base to achieve a more balanced workforce.   

This pattern can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows Newport Wafer Fab 
Limited’s  workforce divided  into  four  equal-sized  groups  based  on  hourly  pay  rates,  with  Band  A  including  the 
lowest-paid  25%  of  employees  (the  lower  quartile)  and  Band  D  covering  the  highest-paid  25%  (the  upper 
quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in 
each Band. However, within Newport Wafer Fab Limited, 44.33% of the employees in Band A are women and 
55.67%  men.  Whereas,  the  percentage  of  male  employees  increases  throughout  the  remaining  Bands,  from 
60.42% in Band B to 94.79% in Band D. 
 
How does Newport Wafer Fab Limited’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 
 
The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap and our gap compares with that of other organisations, 
including those within our sector industry. 
Whilst  our  mean  gender  pay  gap  (at  29.04%)  is  higher  than  the  average  for  the  whole  economy  (at  17.4%) 
(according  to  the  October  2017  Office  for  National  Statistics  (ONS)  Annual  Survey  of  Hours  and  Earnings 
(ASHE) figures), we consider this is reflective of the nature of our workforce and industry. We take into account 
that our workforce is: 
 

•  primarily technical roles in the STEM sector – predominantly and traditionally worked by men; 
• 
•  an  older  than  average  workforce  (our  average  employee  is  aged  48)  with  our  older  workforce 

long-service employees (average length of service is 13 years) – predominantly worked by men;  

predominantly consisting of men; 

•  primarily full-time positions – predominantly worked by men. 

We  also  acknowledge  that  our  workforce  is  based  in  Newport,  South  Wales,  which  has  a  tradition  of  male 
dominated roles within our industry/sector.  
In addition, when assessing our data in terms of cash amounts rather than percentage terms, the figures involved 
are comparatively small. 
We  also  note  that  the  proportion  of  men  who  received  a  bonus  in  the  12  months  up  to  5  April  2017  was 
marginally less than the proportion of women. Demonstrating our commitment to equal pay in our bonus awards.   
 
What is Newport Wafer Fab Limited doing to address its gender pay gap? 
 
While Newport Wafer Fab Limited’s gender pay gap compares with that of organisations both across the whole 
UK economy and within the STEM sector, Newport Wafer Fab Limited remains committed to ensuring fair and 
equal pay across its organisation and reducing its current gap as much as possible.  Not only is Newport Wafer 
Fab Limited committed to eliminating any internal practices that may result in a gender pay disparity, it is also 
committed to tackling some of the external societal root causes that have resulted in its current pay gap.   
 
The  steps  that  Newport  Wafer  Fab  Limited  will  take  to  promote  gender  diversity  in  all  areas  of  its  workforce 
include the following: 

 

Newport Wafer Fab Limited 

Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK- Tel +44 (0)1633 810121 - Fax +44 (0)1633 810820 

Registered in England with company number 4338966, VAT number GB276063592 

Registered Office: Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK 

www.newportwaferfab.com  

 

 

 

•  Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities for action. 

For example, we will seek to assess: 

o 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited; 

o 

the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for leaving; 

o 

the proportion of men and women still in post a year on from a return to work after a period of 
maternity or other parental leave. 

•  Working  with  local  Universities,  Careers  Wales  and  other  bodies  to  attract  female  students  in 

STEM roles:  

•  Objective  recruitment  processes:  To  eliminate  potential  unconscious  bias  with  our  recruitment 

processes, we adopt a fair and objective selection criterion on interview  

Whilst  we  appreciate  that  none  of  these  initiatives  will,  of  itself,  remove  the  gender  pay  gap  -  and  it  may  be 
several years before some have any impact at all, Newport Wafer Fab Limited is committed to reporting on an 
annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 
 
In the coming year, Newport Wafer Fab is also committed to: 
 

• 

• 

reviewing our company pay and benefits structure 

Launching  initiatives  to  raise young  people's awareness  of  the different career  opportunities available 
within the STEM sector, and to help dispel any misperceptions and stereotypes. 

Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the company intranet. 
 
I, Simon Argent, Human Resources Director, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 
 
 
Signed:  S Argent 
 
Date: 
 

19/03/2018 

 

Newport Wafer Fab Limited 

Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK- Tel +44 (0)1633 810121 - Fax +44 (0)1633 810820 

Registered in England with company number 4338966, VAT number GB276063592 

Registered Office: Cardiff Road, Newport, South Wales, NP10 8YJ, UK 

www.newportwaferfab.com  

