Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

SHB is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work and supports fair working conditions and pay for all. 

As an employer with more than 250 employees we are required to publish our annual gender pay gap and have done so based 
on pay data as of 5th April 2017. 

SHB Hire Ltd is a family owned and operated company which has provided vehicle hire and management for 50 years. We have a 
diverse fleet of over 16,500 vehicles ranging from cars, standard and specialist LCVs and HGVs to golf buggies and ATVs.   

We are proud to say we have the largest 4x4 rental fleet in Europe as well as the biggest hire fleet of HGV tippers, crane lorries 
and buggies in the UK. We operate out of 16 key locations nationwide with each one having fully operational workshop facilities 
to provide servicing, inspections, repairs, MOTs, and major breakdown work; six of which are equipped with a bodyshop and 
fabrication facility. 

SHB, like many other organisations in the automotive industry, are still very male dominated and as most of our roles are 
technical such as mechanics, fabricators, paint-sprayers, etc.  It’s not a surprise that only 13.25% of our employees are women.  
We are therefore pleased that our gender pay gap compares favourably with that of other organisations. 

Figures are based on the snapshot taken as of 5th April 2017: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The mean gender pay gap is 2.56% 
The median gender pay gap is 9.43% 
The mean gender bonus gap is 8.51% 
The median gender bonus gap is -50% 
The proportion of males receiving a bonus is 10.93% 
The proportion of females receiving a bonus is  22.22% 

SHB recognises the need to build more female capability at all levels and we would like our percentage of females to males to be 
higher but when we recruit we will always ensure that we recruit the right person for the role and do not positively or negatively 
discriminate.   Every year we are able to recruit more female technicians and apprentices across the business in all disciplines 
and we continue to support this growth year on year. 

To monitor gender pay gap in our business and to ensure we are fair we: 

 

 

Carry out pay and benefit reviews at regular intervals 
Evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure 

  Utilise our recruitment and HR outsource companies as third parties to check new roles and offers to ensure there are 

no discrepancies 

  Do role spot checks on salaries and hourly rates 

SHB is confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent 
work.  Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries 
these roles attract. 

 

Paul Street  
Managing Director, SHB Hire Ltd 

