GENDER PAY GAP

REPORT 2017

UNIQLO EUROPE LTD

When compiling this report we looked into both the mean 

and median gender pay gaps as required by the UK government. 
We also conducted some further analysis into any differences 
between the way in which we pay the men and women that 

make up our UK workforce. 

We are proud to say that at UNIQLO UK, men and women receive 
equal pay for equal work. We are also happy to report that there 

is no gender pay gap in the median pay of men and women.

However, when looking at mean pay of men and women, 

like a large proportion of the retail sector, there is a significant 

gap which is largely driven by the majority of our store teams being 

women and the majority of our senior management being men. 
We see the identification of this gap as a first step to addressing it.

Taku Morikawa

CEO, UNIQLO EUROPE LTD

HOW THE GAP 
IS CALCULATED

The gender pay gap is the difference in average pay between men and 
women across a business regardless of job role. It is not the same as 

equal pay which is a direct comparison of like for like job roles.

The UK government requires all companies with more than 250 

employees to report on both the mean and median gender pay gap. 
The mean gender pay gap is worked out by calculating an hourly rate 
for every man and woman based on what they were paid in April, then 
comparing the mean hourly rates of men and the mean hourly rates of 
women across all roles and personnel in the organisation. Median hourly 
rates are calculated by creating a list of all hourly rates and identifying 
a specific value that is located in the middle point between the lowest 
and highest values of the range. To calculate a median pay gap, such a 
list is created for both men and women at UNIQLO, and the two median 

hourly rates are compared.

We are also required to show the percentage of men and women in 

each of four pay quartiles. This is calculated by ranking the hourly rates 

of each employee from highest to lowest. This list is then divided into 
four sections containing an equal number of employees - quartiles - to 

show four distinct pay bands across the organisation.

All of the calculations include both ordinary pay and bonus pay 

and are based on data from April 2017. 

PAY GAP
0%

21%
MEAN

MEDIAN

QUARTILES

BONUS GAP

34.6%
MEAN

-60.6%
MEDIAN

30.2%
Men

69.8%
Women

33.9%
Men

66.1%
Women

Lower

Lower Middle

35.3%
Men

64.7%
Women

37.4%
Men

62.6%
Women

Upper Middle

Upper

PERCENTAGE OF
MEN AND WOMEN
RECEIVING BONUSES

50.3%
Men

48.7%
Women

OUR COMMITMENT

We are committed to reducing the gender pay gap, 

and to providing the best opportunities to all of our employees. 
The representation of women is healthy and growing at middle 
management level at UNIQLO UK, and through focused career 

development this will lead to further senior female leaders in the 

future. 

We also plan to take steps to encourage a greater number of men 
to apply to join retail at the entry level. To ensure we make good 

progress we will take the following steps: 

Providing training on unconscious bias to all managers involved 

in making decisions on recruitment, pay and progression.

A review and action plan with all employees returning from extended 

time out of the business to ensure a smooth re-integration.

Introducing an “Ambassador” programme where key role models, including female 
leaders and aspiring male leaders, promote our business internally and externally 

to further improve attraction and retention of talent from all backgrounds.

Individual and accelerated learning plans for our high potential 
employees so they can increase their seniority in the business.

Focus groups to continually identify blocking points and actions 

which prevent people from progressing in the business.

Reviewing the reasons why people leave the business to identify any 
blocking points which may prevent people from staying and progressing.

 

Through these actions we are committed to having 

equal representation for men and women in the 

UNIQLO UK leadership team by 2025.

UNIQLO EUROPE LTD 
6th Floor, 1 Kingsway, 
London, WC2B 6AN

uniqlo.com

