GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017  

What is Gender Pay reporting?   

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average hourly earnings of men and women across an organisation  regardless of their roles.  The 
statistics can be affected by a range of factors, including the different number of men and women across all roles right across the workforce. 

It’s important to note that gender pay gap is different from equal pay.  Where ‘equal pay’ is about men and women receiving equal pay for the same 
jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. 

 

How are the averages and quartiles calculated?   

Gender Pay involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in our organisation.   

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Mean Pay Gap:  

shows the difference between the average hourly pay of men and women.  

Median Pay Gap:  

is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly pay of men and women.   

Mean Bonus Gap:  

is the difference between the average bonus paid to men and women.   

Median Bonus Gap:   is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of bonuses paid to men and women.   

Pay Bonus Quartiles: proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females receiving a bonus payment 

Pay Quartiles:  

is the list of all pay data in numerical order and is divided into four equal parts.  

BENTS GENDER PAY REPORT:  

 

 

Mean  

Gender Pay 

8.3%  

Median     

Gender Pay  

0% 

Mean   

Bonus Pay  

60.2% 

Median     
Bonus Pay  

- 11.6%  

Pay Bonus 
Proportion:  

Female: 5.2% 

Male: 4.2%  

Upper Quartile                              Upper Middle Quartile                          Lower Middle Quartile                       Lower Quartile  

Statement from Brian Daniels, our Finance Director.   

As a family run business, we are really passionate about treating all our colleagues equally, no matter what their gender is  and as such we are fully     
dedicated to an equal pay structure for all our colleagues.    

We are encouraged that our average pay gap is well below the UK averages noted at the time of completing this submission* and we ensure that men 
and woman are paid equally when working in equivalent roles at Bents.  

Detailed analysis of our bonus pay data shows that the mean bonus pay gap does not arise from women and men doing the same job, and being 
paid differently.  We are pleased to see that our median bonus pay rates reflect our females in our senior leadership roles of 60%.    

It is to be acknowledged to support the figures, that as a business and especially in our senior leadership roles, we have 60% females to 40% male, 
and as seen in the above quartiles across all roles we have 65% females to 35% male.   

We  are comfortable  that  we  pay  men  and  women the  same for  carrying  out the  same  roles  and  we  have  processes in  place to  strive for  equality 
through our recruitment and retention practices.  

We continually review our pay structures for all roles across the business and we will continue to report the Gender Pay annually.   

I  confirm  that  Bents  Garden  Centre  Limited’s  Gender  Pay  Gap  calculations  are  accurate  and  meet  the  requirements  of  The  Equality  Act  2010  and      
Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017.     

* as per the ASHE (ONS) statistics report and an average of the submitted Gender Pay reports as at 29.03.18.   

