 

 
 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap – Findings and summary 
 
Locala Community Partnerships are required to publish data on our website related to the 
Gender Pay Gap. This came into force in April 2017 and our results have been to Board in June 
2017 and will be published on 30 March 2018, in line with the regulations. These results 
therefore relate to data on 4 April 2017. 
In line with our aim to be transparent, it is important that we clarify what this data is telling 
us, what it means and what is happening in Locala to ensure we continue to ensure equality 
across genders. Firstly, the existence of a gender pay gap is different to equal pay. Equal pay 
refers to differences in pay between men and women who undertake the same job and this is 
unlawful. Locala is aligned to Agenda for Change pay framework which applies to all NHS 
organisations. It is therefore possible that pay equality exists at the same time as a gender pay 
gap as the gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay of all women and average pay 
of all men. 
The key themes from the data published include the impact of the medical and dental 
workforce on the gender pay gap. When we remove this occupation group from the data, the 
mean gender pay gap reduces from 30.6% to 16%, and the median gender pay gap reduces 
from 19.2% to 9.3%. Furthermore, we have significantly lower numbers of males in Bands 1 – 4 
at only 4.1%. We will continue to look at how we can encourage a more gender diverse 
workforce in these roles and in line with our Workforce Strategy develop and strengthen 
entry roles into our organisation for our community. The presentation of the data around 
receipt of bonuses includes those colleagues who receive a long-service award and it should 
be noted that the previous decision to award bonuses to Executive Directors ended in April 
2016 and has been replaced with a colleague reward scheme. 
 

Gender Pay Gap – Figures 
 
Difference in hourly rate 
Women’s mean hourly rate is 30.6% lower than men’s 
Women’s median hourly rate is 19.2% lower than men’s 
 

 

 

 
 
Proportion of women in each pay quartile 
 

 
Who received bonus pay 
 
2.7% of women  
1.6% of men 
 
Difference in bonus pay 
 
Women’s mean bonus pay is 69.2% lower than men’s  
Women’s median bonus pay is 90.8% lower than men’s 
 

 

