We  set  out  below  our  Gender  Pay  Report  in  accordance  with  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap 
Information Regulations 2017). These figures are for Willoughby Corporate Services Limited which provides 
legal staff exclusively to Freeths LLP. 
 
When compared with the data so far published we are pleased to confirm that our results are well within the 
norm for the legal industry. More importantly, whilst compiling the figures we found no indication of gender pay 
differentials  between  lawyers  of  similar  qualification  nor  gender  pay  differentials  between  other  staff  in  our 
organisation performing similar roles. 
 
The main reason that our figures show a gap in pay is that there is a difference in the number of men employed 
by us in senior positions. We remain convinced that this will change over time given the number of women that 
are now progressing with us into senior roles with the firm. We believe in recruiting the best person for the job 
irrespective of gender and we always promote on merit. 
  

 

 

 
 
We fully recognise the importance of an inclusive and diverse workplace and we are determined to continue 
on our journey ensuring that we provide this for our staff and clients at all times in the future. Here are a few 
of the initiatives towards this objective: 
 
•  We have recently reviewed and rebranded both our flexible working policy and family friendly policies to 

ensure that they are inclusive, easily accessible, visibly promoted and available to all staff.   

•  Following  feedback  sessions  with  staff  regarding  our  family  friendly  packages  we  introduced  an  online 
parental coaching platform which aims to help our staff better manage the demands of family and work 
life.    

•  Due  to  the  availability  of  flexible  working  opportunities,  we  currently  have  14%  of  our  legal  staff 

• 

(trainees/lawyers/partners) working part time and this includes 10% of our partners.  
In conjunction with our Staff Council, we are establishing a working group to look at further extending our 
flexible working regime.   

•  We are one of the first regional law firms to adopt contextualised recruitment for all graduate recruitment.  
Contextualised recruitment hard wires social mobility metrics into the recruitment process to enable us to 
understand  better  a  candidate’s  achievements  within  a  social  context.   As  a  result  of  our  use  of 
contextualised data, in 2017, 13% of the offers we made to graduates joining one of our three graduate 
programmes  were  to  candidates  who  would  previously  have  fallen  below  academic  criteria.   However, 
when  reviewing  their  applications  on  the  basis  of  contextualised  recruitment  the  individuals  had  key 
strengths and skills relevant to those applications. 
In order to attract graduates from more diverse backgrounds, we offer three routes into qualification.  One 
of  these  routes  supports  working  whilst  studying  for  the  professional  exams.  This  route  encourages 
applications from more candidates who are first generation to university, from a state educated background 
or from an ethnic minority. 

• 

 
We are committed to delivering on these and other initiatives, and we are confident that any disparities evident 
in the statutory gender pay figures will reduce over time as the make up of our workforce more closely reflects 
our  current  recruitment  trends.  70%  of  our  trainees  and  legal  assistants  are  now  female  and,  given  our 
excellent  retention  rate  on  qualification  (100%  in  the  last  two  years),  our  overall  solicitor  population  will 
progressively reflect these demographics.  

 
Colin Flanagan 
Chairman - Willoughby Corporate Services 
 

 

