 

Excelcare (Homecare Division) Ltd 

Gender Pay Report 2017 

Introduction  
 
From April 2017 all organisations that employ over 250 employees are required to report their gender pay 
gap under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  
 
This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of men and 
women across the organisation over a standard time period regardless of role seniority.  
 
It  is  distinct  from  equal  pay,  which  is  about  ensuring  men  and  women  are  paid  the same  for  carrying  out 
work of equal value. We meet our equal pay obligations.  
 
The following report has been produced in compliance with the regulations and provides the results based 
upon the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 
 
On this date Excelcare (Homecare Division) Ltd had 280 employees relevant to this analysis.  
 
Gender Pay Gap Calculations Results 
 
Hourly Rate –   The difference between the mean and median hourly rate of pay that full time relevant men 

and women receive, showed women earned a mean or average of 1% higher than men 

 
Metric  
Hourly Rate (Women v Men)  
 
Bonus Pay –   The  difference  between  the  mean  and  median  bonus  pay  that  relevant  men  and  women 
employees receive, showed that women earned a mean and median of 700% more than men 

(0.0%) Lower 

1.0% Higher 

Median 

Mean 

 
Metric  
Bonus Pay (Women v Men)  
 
Bonus Pay –   The proportion of men and women, who received a bonus, showed that a higher proportion 

700.0% Higher 

700.0% Higher 

Median 

Mean 

of men received a bonus pay than women 

 
Metric  
Bonus Proportion (Women v Men)  
 
Pay Quartiles – Proportion of employees in each quartile of the organisation, showed a higher proportion of 

Men 
1.7% 

Women 

0.9% 

women than men in all the quartiles 

 
Quartile  
Upper  
Upper Middle  
Lower Middle  
Lower  

Men 
15.2% 
23.9% 
23.9% 
23.9% 

Women 
84.8% 
76.1% 
76.1% 
76.1% 

The metrics provided on this report are positive.  
 
The  mean  or  average  gender  pay  gap  at  is  1.0%  in  favour  of  women,  compared  to  a  national  average  of 
around  12.9%  and  indicates  that  our  female  employees  on  average  are  earning  ever  so  slightly  more  per 
hour than male employees.  
 
The median pay gap shows there is no difference between the employee in the middle range of male pay 
and the middle employee in the range of female pay.  
 
The only difference in pay was due to the salaries of the management team and the salaries and bonuses 
earned by managers which reflected the responsibilities of their role. Of the 3 people on the management 
team that earned a bonus only one was male with the other two being female. There is no gender bar when 
applying for these posts. 
 
The  quartile  splits  show  a  higher  proportion  of  females  across  all  of  the  quartiles,  and  is  in  line  with  our 
overall  organisational split of 78.6% female workforce, and the care sector historically attracting a greater 
proportion of female employees. 
 
It  is  the  company’s  policy  to  ensure  that  employment  decisions,  including  recruitment,  promotion  and 
remuneration,  are  based  upon  the  person’s  skills,  ability,  performance  and  behaviour  and  not  on  their 
gender. The company will continue to ensure that all employees are rewarded fairly for their contributions 
regardless of the gender.  
 
Statement  
 
I confirm the information in this report has been calculated in line with the principles contained within the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 and is accurate. 
 
Osa 

 
Osa Ogbeide 
Head of HR & Payroll 
 
For and on behalf of Excelcare (Homecare Division) Ltd 
 
23 March 2018 

