Duncan and Toplis – Gender pay gap report 2017 
 
 

 

Published March 2018 

Duncan and Toplis – Gender pay gap report 2017 
 
 
Adrian Reynolds, Managing Director  
I am pleased to provide this report on behalf of Duncan & Toplis which provides a comprehensive overview of 
our company's gender pay gap analysis. 
While our gender pay gap is consistent with that of organisations within our sector, we remain committed to 
continual improvement.  Through a number of initiatives detailed throughout this report our focus is to ensure 
our team members have equal opportunities for progression, recognition, reward and development. 
The growth of any organisation relies on attracting and retaining high calibre team members.  At Duncan & Toplis 
we recognise that a diverse workforce with different backgrounds and experience ensures we deliver innovative 
and forward-thinking solutions for our clients. 
I confirm that Duncan and Toplis' gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

Adrian Reynolds 
Managing Director 
 
Data overview 

The figures within this document represent our whole firm and include all employees of Duncan & Toplis Ltd.  
 

 

Published March 2018 

Duncan and Toplis – Gender pay gap report 2017 
 
 
Our remuneration policy 
Duncan  &  Toplis  are  committed  to  ensuring  a  consistent  approach  to  remuneration  across  the  business.   
We  have  a  higher  percentage  of  female  employees  within  our  Company  and  are  pleased  that  our  pay  gap  
is consistent when compared to similar organisations.   
Looking more closely at the data the factors that can affect gaps include grades, seniority and performance levels.  
In  addition  the  Company's  bonus  scheme  includes  Christmas  bonuses  (paid  to  all  employees)  as  well  as  
a recruitment bonus paid to employees who successfully recommend a new recruit.  This bonus is recognised in 
the data we present but is in no way connected to gender.   
Whilst there are valid explanations for indicated pay gaps we remain committed to continuing our focus on 
ensuring fair and equal pay across the business.  Our pay reviews, promotion and training plans are all agreed 
through formal committees linked with our HR team to ensure a robust and transparent approach.  As with any 
company, improvements can and must be made and this is reflected in our ongoing commitment to our team 
members who remain central to everything we do. 
 
Below are just some of the key initiatives designed to support, develop and 
engage our team members 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Published March 2018 

 

 

 

Duncan and Toplis – Gender pay gap report 2017 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
This report is published in accordance with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information)  
Regulations 2017.  Data as of 5 April 2017* 
 

 

Published March 2018 

 

 

 

Duncan and Toplis – Gender pay gap report 2017 
 
 

Published March 2018 

