                                                                       Login     Username     Password        Lost Password Employee Logon   Register                                  Menu  Who We Are Sectors Construction & Property Rail & Transport Industrial & Engineering Design & Consultancy Energy & Power Trades & Labour Close Work For Us Clients Our Service Useful Documents Compliance F.A.Q Close Candidates Send Your CV How We Recruit F.A.Q Documents Payroll Close News Get In Touch Sheffield Sheffield Recruitment Agency 18 Paradise Square
Sheffield S1 2DE    0114 2634 888    0114 2634 999  Contact Sheffield  Get Directions  Construction Jobs Sheffield For the latest construction jobs in Sheffield make

sure you contact Linear Recruitment, discover

the leading construction recruitment agency in Sheffield today. Newcastle Newcastle Recruitment Agency 1st Floor, Cathedral Buildings
Dean Street
Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 1PG    0191 232 5460    0191 235 3909  Contact Newcastle  Get Directions  Newcastle Recruitment Agency Find the best construction agencies in Newcastle

and visit Linear Recruitment today. Our specialist construction recruitment consultants are experts in

finding the right job for you. Leeds Leeds Recruitment Agency 5 Butts Court
Leeds  LS1 5JS    0113 245 8468    0113 244 0698   Contact Leeds  Get Directions  Construction Recruitment Leeds Discover our specialised construction agency in Leeds

and find the very best construction jobs available.

Visit Linear Recruitment in Leeds today and find out

for yourself. Manchester Manchester Recruitment Agency Centurion House
129 Deansgate
Manchester  M3 3WR    0161 214 7940  Contact Manchester  Get Directions  Construction Agency Manchester Contact the best construction recruitment agency in

Manchester today and find your ideal career with Linear

Recruitment. Our construction recruitment consultants

are experts in finding you your perfect job. London London Recruitment Agency Swan Court
Suite 1, 9 Tanner Street
London SE1 3LE    020 7450 5000    020 7450 5326  Contact London  Get Directions  Construction Agency London Visit Linear Recruitment today and find the very latest construction recruitment jobs in London , are specialist

construction recruitment consultants are here to find

your perfect jobs. Northampton Northampton Recruitment Agency 298 Wellingborough Road Northampton NN1 4EP    01604 604 289  Contact Northampton  Get Directions  Construction Agency Northampton Choose the leading construction recruitment agency in

Northampton and find your perfect career. Our specialist

teams are here to find experienced industry professionals

their ideal job.  Close                 Search for your next role      Sector  Construction & Property Design & Consultancy Energy & Power Housing Industrial & Engineering Rail & Transport Recruitment Sales Trades & Labour       Location  Abergele Accrington Acton Adlington Alderley Edge Allerton Alsager Altrincham Alvaston Anfield Anglesey Appleton Ardwick Arncliffe Ashton-in-Makerfield Ashton-under-Lyne Atherton Audlem Avon Backford Bamber Bridge Bangor Bardsea Barnton Barrow-in-Furness Barston Bebington Bedfordshire Bedworth Belle Vale Belle Vue Bentley Heath Berkshire Bicester Bidston Birchwood Birkenhead Birmingham Bispham Blackburn Blackpool Blacon Blossomfield Bold Heath Bollington Bolton Bolton-le-Sands Bootle Bostock Boughton Bournemouth Bradford Bradley Mount Bramhall Bredbury Bristol Broadheath Brookhouse Broomedge Broughton Broughton Beck Brownhill Buckinghamshire Burnage Burnley Burton Green Burton upon trent Burtonwood Bury Butely Town Buxton Cadishead Caernarfon Calderstones Cambridge Cambridgeshire Cannock Cardiff Carnforth Carrington Caughall Caughton Central London Chadderton Chapel-en-le-Frith Charnock Green Cheadle Cheadle Heath Cheadle Hulme Chelford Cheshire Chester Chesterfield Cheswick Green Chorley Christleton City of London Claughton Clayton-le-Woods Cleveland Cleveleys Clifton Clinteroe Clock Face Codsall Coldfield Colwyn Bay Commercial Congleton Construction & Property Conwy Copt Heath Corby Cornwall Coventry CQS Crewe Crewe Green Croft Crosby Croughton Culcheth Cumberland Cumbria Dale Brow Darwen Deeside Denbighshire Denton Derby Derbyshire Devon Disley Dorridge Dorset Droylsden Dudley Dunham Massey Durham Earcroft Earlswood East Anglia East London East Midlands East Sussex East Yorkshire Eccles Eccleston Edgwick Ellesmere Port Elton Elworth Essex Euxton Everton Ewloe Ewood Exhall Failsworth Fairfield Fallowfield Farnworth Featherstone Fleetwood Flint Flintshire Formby Friargate Frodsham Garston Gate Acre Gately Gateshead Gatley Glasgow Glossop Gloucestershire Gorton Grappenhall Great Barrow Great Boughton Great Harwood Great Sankey Great Sutton Great Yarmouth Greater London Greater Manchester Greendale Guide HA61QG Hadfield Hale Hale Barns Halewood Hall Green Halton Halton Green Hampshire Handbridge Handforth Hanley Hartford Hartlebury Hatton Hazel Grove Heald Green Heaton Chapel Herefordshire Hertfordshire Hest Bank Heywood High Legh High Leigh Higher Walton Hockley Heath Hollingworth Hollywood Holmes Chapel Hoole Hooton Hopwood Hornby Horwich Housing Hulme Humberside Huntington Huyton Irlam Keele Kendal Kenilworth Kensington Kent Kings Heath Kirkby Kirkham Knowsley Knutsford Lancashire Lancaster Larkfield Ledbury Leeds Leftwich Leicestershire Leigh Levenshulme Leyland Lichfield Lincolnshire Little Hulton Little Neston Little Packington Littleton Liverpool Llandudno Lockerbie London Lowton Luton Lymm Lytham Lytham St Annes Macclesfield Malvern Manchester Market Drayton Marston Mellor Merseyside Middlebrook Middlesbrough Middlesex Middleton Middlewich Midlands Mill Hill Mode Hill Mold Morecambe Mossley Mossy Lea Moston Moston Green Mythop Nantwich Nationwide Nelson Nether Kellet New Broughton New Build newbury Newcastle Newcastle-under-Lyme Newland Newport Newton Newton-le-Willows Next Ness Norfolk Norris Green North East North London North Wales North West North Yorkshire Northampton Northamptonshire Northenden Northern Home Counties Northumberland Northwich Nottinghamshire Old Hall Old Trafford Oldham Ordsall Ormskirk Oswaldtwistle Outcast Over Alderley Over Kellet Oxfordshire Padgate Padiham Parrs Wood Partington Pendlebury Pendleton Penketh Penkridge Pennington Pleckgate Plumpton Poole Portsmouth Potters Bar Poulton Poulton-le-Fylde Poynton Prenton Prescot Prestatyn Prestbury Preston Prestwich Pretwich Quantity Surveying Quantity Surveyor Radcliffe Rainhill Red Rock Reddish Redditch Rhyl Rishton Risley Rochdale Rock Ferry Ropewalks Rosside Royton Rudheath Runcorn Rusholme Sale Salford Saltney Sandbach Scotland Scottish Borders Sealand Seascale Seedley Sefton Sellafield Shadsworth Sheffield Shevington Shilton Shirley Shotton Shropshire Silverstone Skelmersdale Skerton Slyne Solihul Solihull Somerset South East South East Anglia South London South Manchester South Midlands South Wales South West South Wirral South Yorkshire Southampton Southern Home Counties Southport Sparkhill Speke SQS St Annes ST Asaph St Helens Stafford Staffordshire Stalybridge Standish Stevenage Stockport Stoke-on-Trent Stourbridge Stretford Stretton Styal Suffolk Surrey Sussex Sutton Sutton Coldfield Sutton Manor Swansea Swarthmoor Swinton Tarbock Green Telford The Gill Timperley Tipton Todmorden Towyn Trafford Tranmere Trinkeld Tunstall Tyhterington Tyne and Wear Tytherington Ulverston Upton Urmston Vauxhall Vicars Cross Wales Walkden Wallasey Walsall Walton Warburton Warrington Warwickshire Waverton Wavertree Weaste West Bromwich West Houghton West Kirby West London West Midlands West Sussex West Yorkshire Westbrook Whiston Whitefield Whitley Green Widnes Wigan Willaston Wilmslow Wilpshire Wiltshire Wincham Windermere Winsford Winwick Wirral Wistaston Withington Wolston Wolverhampton Woolstanwood Woolton Worcester Worcestershire Worsley Wrexham Wrightington Wythall Wythenshawe Yorkshire           We'll help you find your place                         About Linear Recruitment        What We Do    We’re the Construction Recruitment Agency Who’s Making Recruitment Better.  Since 2001, we’ve been bringing our unique brand of construction recruitment to some of the most exciting Candidates and Clients in the UK and beyond.  Up and down the country, we have expert teams of Construction Recruitment Consultants and Support Staff who are dedicated to providing a better brand of temporary, contract and permanent recruitment across a range of specialist industry sectors.  But what makes us different? It’s the way we think about People that sets us apart. Linear Recruitment was founded by our Managing Director, Adam Turner, to place People at the heart of recruitment. We stood by our Values ever since then, and they’re what make us who we are.  Our specialist teams are based in Newcastle, Leeds, Manchester, and Sheffield and we also have a dedicated construction recruitment agency in London. They serve Construction Recruitment and Property, Rail, Energy and Power, Trades and Labour, Design and Consultancy, and Industrial and Engineering recruitment sectors.     Values   Our values have been with us since day one. They’re what make us Linear, and we’ll always be guided by them.  it’s personal  We’re real People who really care. It’s important for us to earn the respect of the People we work with to develop meaningful relationships. We understand it’s best to deal with a friendly face.  we’re better together  Experience has taught us People realise their potential when they collaborate.  Together we’re great minds, ideas, personalities. Great innovation. Great results. We’re a great team.  we do what’s right  For us, it’s about more than just money. It’s about making the right choices. From quality and ethics to safety and environment to diversity and wellbeing, we lead the way in responsible practice.  straight to the point  We’re straight forward. Recruitment doesn’t always get a good press, and that’s why honesty, transparency and integrity are so important to us. We’ll show you how we’re different.  we go beyond  Do you think good is enough? We don’t.  Because we always want to fulfil the potential of the People we work with, we’re always looking for new ways to make what we do better.  And when we find better, we start looking for best. Choose Linear Recruitment agency today.       See our Gender Pay Gap Report here .               Want to send us your CV Quickly?   Upload CV         Quick Links Frequently Asked Questions  Send Your CV  Register With Us  Sitemap     Contact Numbers   London: 020 7450 5000  Sheffield: 0114 2634 888  Newcastle: 0191 2325 460  Leeds: 0113 245 8468  Manchester: 0161 214 7940  Northampton: 01604 604 289             Get the latest updates    Copyright Linear Recruitment © All Rights reserved  Sitemap | Privacy Policy                                               