GENDER PAY
REPORT

Adobe UK

2017

INTRODUCTION

John Warnock and Chuck Geschke 
founded Adobe based on three 
fundamental principles: Our people  
are our most important asset. Good 
ideas come from everywhere. And  
build a company where you would  
want to work yourself.

More than 35 years later, Adobe continues to invest in building 
a diverse and inclusive environment for our employees. Our 
goal is to treat all employees with respect and integrity while 
valuing  their  differences.  We  believe  that  when  our  people 
feel  appreciated  and  included,  they  can  be  more  creative, 
innovative and successful.

At Adobe we have made steady progress improving our gender 
diversity mix over the last few years, but we still have work to 

do. We are committed to a more diverse workforce over time. 
We believe that it’s not just the right thing to do; it also leads 
to  higher  performance  and  better  results.  In  technology, 
innovation is a must and diversity is a competitive advantage. 

We publicly share our diversity demographics annually to 
provide awareness, spur conversation, and inspire action on 
diversity and inclusion within Adobe and across the industry. 
We have also invested in pay parity, which is our commitment 
to ensure that employees in similar jobs are paid fairly relative 
to one another, regardless of gender. We have committed to 
pay parity globally by the end of Adobe’s fiscal 2018.

Adobe welcomes the UK government’s introduction of gender 
pay  gap  reporting  legislation,  which  provides  an  additional 
indication of gender diversity within organizations. While it is 
a different method of reporting than we have used in other 
channels, it provides important and valuable transparency for 
our UK workforce, future candidates and stakeholders.

2

Adobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report Adobe UK GENDER  
PAY REPORT 2017

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average pay 
of all male and female employees irrespective of what role they may 
have, and reflects the gender balance within an organization. Looking 
at our data as of April 2017, Adobe’s pay gap for UK employees was 
largely driven by the fact that there is a smaller number of women in 
higher-paid senior management and sales roles within the business. 
This  can  be  seen  in  our  pay  quartiles,  which  show  Adobe’s  gender 
distribution in the UK for each of four equally-sized pay quartiles.

Gender  diversity  is  a  well-recognized  challenge  for  the  IT  industry, 
and one we are focused on addressing. In fiscal 2017, Adobe increased 
female  representation  in  the  company  by  two  percent  year  on  
year  globally  from  29%  to  31%.  Our  gender  distribution  in  the  UK  
was  69%  male/31%  female  as  of  April  2017,  compared  to  an  IT  
industry distribution of 82% male/18% female1. While we’re pleased 
with this progress, we need to continue to do more to improve our 
diversity mix. 

Overall, our gender pay gap in April 2017 was comparable to the UK 
gender  pay  gap  of  18.1%—significantly  lower  than  the  technology 
industry’s average gender pay gap of 25%2. 

It  is  important  to  distinguish  the  gender  pay  gap  from  pay  parity, 
which  is  about  reviewing  the  difference  in  pay  between  men  and 
women, taking into consideration the job. Adobe began regular pay 
parity analysis in 2016. In the US and India, which are Adobe’s largest 
operating markets—comprising 80% of our employee population—
we have achieved pay parity when analyzed on this basis, and we are 
now working towards pay parity globally.

Adobe UK Pay Gap: Shows the difference between 
the average pay of all male and female employees. Does not take into 
account employees’ specific roles or seniority, or how these impact pay. 

Mean pay gap 

18.2%

Median pay gap 

20.3%

19%

29%

30%

46%

81%

71%

70%

54%

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

1. Gender Pay in the UK High-Tech Industry, Mercer-Comptryx, March 2016
2. Gender Pay in the UK High-Tech Industry, Mercer-Comptryx, March 2016

3

Pay Quartiles: Proportion of males and females in each of four equally-sized  pay quartiles, with each quartile containing 158 employees££££££££££Adobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report Adobe UK GENDER  
PAY REPORT 2017

The bonus pay gap calculation is based on a number of Adobe rewards 
programs offered to employees, with most of our bonus pay covered 
under three plans: Our annual incentive plan (AIP), which is based on 
a combination of company achievement and individual performance; a 
commission-based plan for sales employees, which offers compensation 
based on individual performance; and our equity (RSU) grant program. 
The cash bonuses are paid in the February following the year worked, 
so April 2017 data reflects bonuses from 2016 performance.

Our  bonus  pay  gap  reflects  the  fact  that  during  the  period  reported 
(2016) we had a greater number of men in sales positions, which offer 
commission-based bonus plans with significantly higher compensation 
than our general incentive plan (AIP) for non-sales employees. These 
commission-based  payments  accounted  for  most  of  Adobe’s  bonus 
disbursement  in  2016.  As  of  fiscal  2017,  Adobe  extended  coverage  of 
its AIP to all employees, which should reduce the gap in proportion of 
females receiving a bonus reported next year.

Adobe UK Bonus Gap:  
Shows the difference between the average bonus pay of all male and  
female employees

44%

Mean bonus  
gap

42%

Median bonus  
gap

Proportion of employees who 
received a bonus:

Male  

91%

Female  84%

4

Adobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report Taking
ACTION

Closing the gender pay gap is an  
important step in our commitment to 
ensure our workforce is diverse, inclusive, 
and full of opportunity for everyone. 
We realize it takes a long-term  
commitment to significantly change 
the make-up of our workforce. We are 
continuing investment in three main 
strategic areas.

While opportunities in technology are on the rise globally, 
fewer women are seeking or taking advantage of them. 
In  the  UK,  less  than  16%  of  IT  graduates  in  2016  were 
women3.  At  Adobe  we  are  committed  to  contributing 
to  initiatives  that  make  technology  more  accessible  to 
women and underserved communities. In 2017 we gave 
$3.5  million  to  youth  coding  initiatives,  reaching  more 
than 15,000 youth including through organizations such 

as  Girls  Who  Code.  Through  our  Girls  in  Technology 
Summit series in the UK, we are working with London 
and  regional  secondary  schools  to  introduce  young 
women  to  our  work  and  inspire  them  into  careers  in 
technology. Our goal with these programs is to connect 
with those who never thought of themselves as working 
in technology and open their minds to the possibilities 
of technology as a career choice.

In 2017 we gave $3.5 million to youth coding initiatives, 
reaching more than 15,000 youth including through 
organizations such as Girls Who Code. 

In 2017, 40 percent of Adobe’s new hires globally 
were women, up 9 percent from the prior year

3. Statistics on Women in Engineering, Women’s Engineering Society, January 2018

5

1. Committing to the Next GenerationAdobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report In 2017, 40 percent of Adobe’s new hires globally were 
women, up 9 percent from the prior year. But we are  
still  not  where  we  want  to  be.  We’re  focusing  on 
evolving  our  hiring  practices  –  from  how  we  source 
candidates, to how we assemble interview panels and 
train  managers  and  how  we  make  offers.  We  work 
with a number of industry and non-profit partners to 

identify, recruit, and hire exceptional and diverse talent. 
We  also  partnered  with  the  NeuroLeadership  Institute 
to develop a course for employees aimed at mitigating 
unconscious  bias  in  decision-making.  And  we  are  in 
the  process  of  adopting  a  tool  to  help  ensure  our  job 
descriptions are gender-neutral and written to appeal to 
diverse candidates.

3. Creating an inclusive environment for our employees 

Shadow  Program,  Leadership  Circles,  and  the  Voice  & 
Influence Circles program.

As an employer, we also acknowledge the demands of work 
and  life,  and  are  creating  programs  that  give  employees 
more flexibility, including flexible schedules and part-time 
options. This includes continuing to expand our paid family 
leave  programs  around  the  world;  we  now  provide  six 
months of fully paid time off for all new mothers globally.

6

2. Hiring diverse candidatesAdobe strives to create an environment where  employees can do their best  work and drive their career growth – ultimately contributing to making our workforce happier, more productive and more diverse. While we still have a long way to go, we are excited to continue to learn from other industry leaders as we all continue this journey.At Adobe we’re committed to creating a workplace where all employees can grow their careers in an inclusive environment that embraces differences, under the theme of “Adobe For All.” Within this, we are actively committed to initiatives that recognize, develop and promote female talent, including enabling more women into senior management levels. In the last two years we’ve seen significant growth in many of our development programs for female employees including our Women’s Executive Adobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report Director 
DECLARATION

We confirm that our data has been calculated according  
to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010  
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
The calculation methodology has been checked and  
approved by our lawyers. We confirm that these figures  
have been verified and are accurate.

CHRISTIAN KEIM 
Senior Director,  
General Counsel EMEA,  
Adobe Systems Europe

TANIA GARRETT 
Senior Director,  
Employee Experience,  
Adobe Systems Europe

7

Adobe UK 2017 | Gender Pay Report 