Date: 17th January 2018 

Gender Pay Gap (GPG) reporting at the British Library 

As an employer with over 250 staff, the British Library is required by law to carry out Gender Pay 
reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

The gender pay gap between men and women working at the Library is currently 6.22%. We are 
working hard to eliminate this gap at the latest by 2023, the Library’s 50th anniversary year.  

We have recently introduced a fairer and more attractive pay system and we are working on 
progressive policies to increase our flexibility as an employer, supporting smarter working, providing 
career breaks as well as childcare provision in London and Yorkshire.  

There is still much to do, but our Leadership Team is fully committed to increasing our diversity as an 
employer and also by appealing to as broad a range of users as possible. 

How the figures break down 

Gender Pay Gap reporting involves carrying out a number of calculations to identify any difference 
between the average earnings of men and women in our organisation. It will not involve publishing 
individual employees’ data.  

 
NOTE: Quartiles have been calculated by dividing the workforce into four equal sized groups and show the proportion of men 
(yellow) and women (green) in each quartile band, Quartile 1 being the lowest and Quartile 4 being the highest. 

 

Eliminating the Gender Pay Gap 

As a progressive employer, we have published our results earlier than the deadline of April 2018, in 
order to demonstrate our commitment to eliminating any gender pay gap. The data provides us with a 
benchmark for future improvements to ensure that we reduce the pay gap effectively. 

We will use these results to assess: 

  The levels of gender equality in our workplace 

  The balance of men and women employed at different levels 
  How effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded 

The national mean pay gap for full-time and part-time staff is 17.4% and the median is 18.4% 
(Fawcett Society November 2017).  We are able to report that the British Library’s mean pay gap is 
6.22% and the median pay gap is 1.81% in a workforce made up of 45% male and 55% female, as of 
5th April 2017 (see table above: yellow Hourly rates section). 

There are a number of reasons that help account for the current figures, including: 

  Overall we have a long serving workforce which reflects past employment practices  
 

In the past we had a historic pay structure which linked length of service to incremental 
progression which tends to favour male employees who are less likely to take career and 
parental breaks or  work part time.  

  142 members of staff have in the past taken maternity/shared parental leave and/or a career 

break, which impacts on their remuneration when they return after a career break. 

  Currently, the senior leadership team comprises of 65% male managers and 35% female 

managers which lead to a higher proportion of men in quartile 4 who are paid more than 
women in this group (see table above: Employee quartile section). 

  There are 14 members of staff on maternity leave who are excluded from the snapshot data 

 

Next steps 

One of the Library’s performance targets has been to increase the number of women in senior roles 
and over the last year, we have seen this figure increase by 3.6%. However, there is still much work 
to be done too and we are committed to eliminate our Gender Pay Gap by 2023 by: 

  Continuing to highlight and remove unconscious bias from our recruitment processes and 

encourage the internal promotion of our staff 

  Reviewing our pay and appraisal processes to ensure fairness and transparency and assess 

the impact of performance related pay on gender, as well as recruitment, retention and 
motivation across the workforce 

  Promoting opportunities for flexible working, shared parental leave and career breaks at all 

levels and encourage job applicants who wish to work part time or on a flexible work pattern 
  Continuing our support to working parents through an onsite holiday play scheme at Boston 

Spa and the Westminster Play Scheme in London 

  Developing an Agile Working strategy which supports working from home and remote working 

where possible with appropriate management, policy and technology support   

  Continuing provision of Childcare Vouchers to support working parents 
  Examining the feasibility of pay matching salary increases when people return from career 

 

breaks 
Increasing the number of women in senior roles and at Board level to encourage more 
women to join the Library 
Increasing the number of women in underrepresented sections of the business e.g. IT 

 
  Developing the leadership and management skills of our staff with particular focus on career 

development and management training for women 

  Supporting personal development for all staff with specific emphasis on coaching and 

mentoring for women 

We will next report on the Gender Pay Gap at the end of 2018, highlighting the progress made over 
the next 12 months and additional improvements we plan to make.   

Chief Executive Officer 

 

