2017 Gender Pay Gap report

for the UK business of Columbia Threadneedle Investments (Threadneedle Management Services Limited)

12/03/2018

In 2017 UK gender pay gap legislation was introduced requiring organisations with 250 people or 
more to publish gender pay gap figures annually. A company’s gender pay gap is the difference in 
average earnings between all men and women employees. Organisations are required to report  
certain data calculated on 5 April each year and published within 12 months of that date. 

Columbia Threadneedle Investments supports gender pay gap reporting, recognising that disclosure 
is an important step towards improvement. We know that there is a lack of gender balance in our 
industry and we are working to address this issue. In 2015 Columbia Threadneedle was the first 
European asset manager to disclose our gender diversity data and in March 2016 we were proud  
to be one of seven founding signatories of HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter and the first 
asset manager to sign, pledging to support the progression of women into senior roles by setting 
concrete targets and deliverables.

Columbia Threadneedle is committed to achieving lasting change in terms of gender diversity and 
diversity more generally. At a time when our clients are facing increasing challenges, a diverse mix 
of experience, ideas and opinions helps us better understand their needs and deliver the outcomes 
they expect from us. Our ultimate aim is to achieve gender balance across our business and to 
eliminate any material gender pay gap.

I am proud of Columbia Threadneedle’s stance in promoting better gender diversity and can see  
measurable improvement in our business, which I believe reflects a progressive and inclusive 
culture. It is our responsibility to ensure the momentum continues from here.

I confirm the data reported is accurate.

Michelle Scrimgeour
CEO EMEA
Columbia Threadneedle Investments

1

Threadneedle Management Services Limited* pay and bonus gap (April 2017)

Women’s hourly rate is:

Women’s bonus pay is:

Mean

29.1% lower

69.1% lower

Median

25.4% lower

66.4% lower

*Threadneedle Management Services Limited is the UK employing entity for Columbia Threadneedle Investment’s UK business.

The table above shows:
 n  The overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at 5 April 2017. The median figure 

compares the pay of the man and woman who are at the mid-point of the company payroll. The mean figure is 
produced by dividing the total payroll by the number of employees.

 n  The mean and median difference between bonuses paid to men and women in the year up to 5 April 2017  

(ie for performance year 1 Jan 2016 – 31 Dec 2016).

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile 

Top

78%

Upper mid

Lower mid

Lower

74%

63%

41%

22%

26%

37%

59%

Columbia Threadneedle’s total UK employee population is 63% male, 37% female.

Proportion of men and women receiving a performance bonus for 2017 

96.6%

94.2%

All employees are eligible to receive a bonus, provided they are employed before the annual cut-off date and on the 
payment date, with awards pro-rated for service in the performance year. The figures above are due to the timing of 
joiners, leavers and other absences among both male and female employees.

What does the data mean?

Our gender pay gap data tells us what we already know; that women hold fewer senior positions at Columbia 
Threadneedle, including in higher-paying specialist areas such as Investments and front-line Sales. We are specifically 
focused on improving gender balance in these areas, understanding it will take time to address. Our analysis shows 
that our mean gender pay gap would reduce to 4.9% if we had the same number of men and women employed at each 
seniority level, across all areas of the business.

Much of the bonus pay gap is also due to the under-representation of women described above. Asset management  
is a performance-led profession and the best managers can be easily identified and rewarded. Across the company  
we use a consistent balanced scorecard approach to determine incentive (ie bonus) amounts for employees at  
all levels. 

2

Every employee’s performance is measured against explicit performance goals as well as against our values  
of Client Focus, Excellence, Integrity and Respect. This ensures employees are rewarded both for what they do  
and how they do it.

It’s important to emphasise that gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay (which has been a legal requirement  
in the UK since 1970). Having undertaken thorough analysis of our data, we are confident that men and women 
across our business are paid on an equivalent basis for doing equivalent jobs.

What are we doing about it?

Since 2015, when we first disclosed our gender data, we have implemented changes across our EMEA business and 
are making progress, as demonstrated in the table below. 

Columbia Threadneedle Investments  
EMEA – female representation

31/12/17

31/12/16

31/12/15

31/12/14

31/12/13

Board*

Executive Committee

Senior management

Investment professionals

Total employees

*Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Sarl   

40%

40%

17%

27%

36%

33%

29%

20%

29%

36%

22%

24%

19%

28%

37%

22%

11%

16%

29%

37%

13%

8%

11%

21%

35%

We have a robust gender action plan in place built around the following four areas of focus, with a number of initiatives 
introduced and actively measured to ensure we continue to make progress towards gender balance. 

1. Championing a diverse and inclusive culture and demonstrating a commitment to diversity:

 n  Improved maternity and paternity leave policies introduced, alongside practical support  

and engagement throughout for working parents

 n  Maternity and Shared Parental leave workshops held and best practice guidelines issued  

for managers

 n Flexible working arrangements reviewed and guidance issued to employees and managers.

2. Focusing on pipeline development and engagement programmes:

 n Pilot programme successfully introduced to support and develop emerging female talent
 n Employee mentoring programme well established
 n Quarterly Women in Leadership speaker series introduced.

3. Attracting female talent through robust recruitment policies:

 n Commitment to gender balanced candidate slates and interview process
 n Unconscious bias and interview skills training mandated for leaders
 n  Detailed recruitment metrics, by department, reported to regional Executive Committee  

on quarterly basis.

4. Acting as an advocate and industry ambassador for improved gender balance in asset management:
 n  Mark Burgess, Chief Investment Officer is Executive Sponsor for Diversity with overall accountability  

for meeting targets

 n First asset manager to disclose gender data (2015)
 n First asset manager to sign HMT Women in Finance Charter (2016)
 n  Received Employer of the Year at 2017 Women in Finance Awards, 2017 Gender Equality Award  

from Skytop Strategies, Supporting Excellence Award from Investment Week’s Women in Investment  
Awards 2017 and 2016 Diversity Award from Better Society Awards.

For more on gender pay gap reporting see the UK Government website

Important information: Past performance is not a guide to future performance. The value of investments and any income is not guaranteed and can go down as well as up and may be affected by exchange rate fl uctuations. This means that 
an investor may not get back the amount invested. Columbia Threadneedle Investments is the global brand name of the Columbia and Threadneedle group of companies. Issued by Threadneedle Investment Services Limited (No. 3701768). 
Threadneedle Asset Management Limited (No. 573204). Registered in England and Wales. Authorised and Regulated in the UK by the Financial Conduct Authority. columbiathreadneedle.com 
Issued 03.18  |  J27545

3

