Gender pay gap 
2017 report

Under new legislation that came into force in April 
2017, UK employers with more than 250 employees 
are required to publish their gender pay gap. This 
report contains the data for Wilkin Chapman Group 
Limited, the service company of Wilkin Chapman LLP.

Wilkin Chapman is committed to creating an inclusive and diverse 
working environment where employees of all backgrounds are 
treated equally.  It is important that we have a diverse range of 
employees from different backgrounds, talents and life experiences 
to assist with our continued growth and success.

Creating an inclusive and diverse culture will provide all our 
employees with an opportunity to reach their full potential and 
have a successful career.

The gender pay gap reporting allows us to more fully understand 
and overcome any obstacles that may prevent our employees 
from achieving their full potential.  

Des Mannion 
CEO

Julie Brearley 
Head of HR

Statutory Disclosures

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference  
in the average pay between men and women.   
This differs from equal pay which is the right for men 
and women to be paid the same when doing the same, 
or equivalent, work.

Gender pay figures for  
Wilkin Chapman Group Ltd

The information below illustrates our gender pay gap figures 
that have been calculated in line with the Government 
Regulations.  The figures show the mean and median pay 
gap based on hourly rates of pay as at 5 April 2017 and 
the mean and median bonus gap based on bonuses paid in 
the 12 months to 5 April 2017.

Basic pay – the difference in average 
pay between men and women

Mean

Median

35.1%

33.3%

Pay Quartiles

The graphics below show the proportion of 
females and males in each quartile band

Male

Female

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile

11.8

88.2

9.4

90.6

Upper middle quartile

Upper quartile

Bonuses – the difference in average  
bonus paid between men and women  
who received a bonus

Mean

Median

25%

17.7

40.0

81.5%

82.3

60.0

The proportion of employees 
receiving a bonus payment

Declaration

92.5%

91.9%

We confirm that Wilkin Chapman Group Ltd’s gender pay 
data is accurate and meets the requirements of the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Des Mannion, CEO

Understanding the  
Gender Pay Gap

Wilkin Chapman Group Ltd’s mean gender pay gap of 
35.1% is higher than the UK mean gap of 18.1%. The 
main reason for this gap is a demographic one which is 
shared by many law and other professional service firms.

The figures are impacted by a disproportionate female to  
male ratio. The pie chart opposite shows that, overall,  
80% of the employee population is female. 

The total number of employees ‘in scope’ for gender pay 
reporting is 340 with a female to male ratio of 4:1 (Male 
= 67 / Female = 273). In addition, (as highlighted in the 
pay quartiles) there is a high proportion of females in 
secretarial, administration and clerical supporting roles 
which are lower paid roles. Analysis of employee pay 
shows that 82% of all female employees are in these 
support roles.

This female to male ratio coupled with the lower earnings 
attributable to the female population has a distortive effect on 
the overall gender pay picture. For example, an analysis of 
male and female pay at various grades within the business 
demonstrates that, with the exception of the Support Services 
cohort, the pay gap is, actually, well below the national 
average. For example, an analysis of the pay gap for client 
facing employees (eg Trainees, Solicitors, Chartered Legal 
Executives and Paralegals + others), shows that the mean pay 
gap is lower than the UK mean gap.

80.3%

19.7%

Male

Female

Addressing the pay gap

As alluded to already, the headline gender pay gap 
of 35% is a symptom of the demographic bias in the 
business towards female employees undertaking roles 
that attract a lower salary. 

This demographic issue is not one that can be resolved 
easily but we will strive in the future to ensure that 
recruitment policies and procedures create a diverse and 
inclusive workforce.

In particular the business will:

   Provide training to eliminate any unconscious bias in our 
recruitment and talent management processes.

  Provide interview training to recruiters.

  Seek to secure more females into higher paid roles.

