Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report
Astellas Pharma Europe Limited

Working as One Astellas encapsulates how we 
embrace and respect diversity in our workforce. 
At Astellas, we strongly believe in opportunities 
for everyone.
In 2017, the U.K. government legislation came into force requiring U.K. companies  
with 250 or more employees to report their gender pay gap. The regulations 
provide a great opportunity for Astellas to reiterate our commitment to a 
diverse and gender balanced workforce.

We believe that we have a strong platform for this. However, there are clearly 
areas where we can do better. As an organisation, we continue to go through 
significant change which has given us the opportunity to transform. Actions 
to increase the different, diverse voices and views in our company are not only 
welcomed but also makes great business sense.

This report sets out our gender pay gap results. We can confirm that these are 
accurate. As an organisation, we are dedicated to the steps that we set out in 
this report. Whether you are a current employee, or one who is yet to join, we 
encourage you to join us on this journey.

Economic gender parity could boost UK GDP by $250 
billion

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Source: World Economic Forum

02

The median

Highest

paid

Lowest

paid

Understanding Gender Pay Gap
Legislation requires reporting of data points covering mean and median pay and bonus gap, proportion of 

males and females receiving a bonus payment and proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band.£Total

£Total

The median gender pay gap compares the pay of 
the female in the middle  to the pay of the man in the 
middle, if all employees were lined up by female and 
£
£££
male, in order of pay from highest to lowest.

££

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in the 
average hourly rate of pay between men and women. 
The total pay of all men, divided by the number of 
men,  is compared to women on the same basis.

The gap

The gap

£

££

£££

As different jobs pay differently and the number of men and 
women performing these jobs varies, a gender pay gap emerges 
if, for example, more men are in higher paid roles or more 
women are in lower paid roles.

It is important to note that the gender pay gap is different from 
‘equal pay’: Equal Pay is the difference in pay between men and women 
who carry out the same or similar jobs.

=

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

03

What’s included in our calculations?
How are pay quartiles calculated?
The quartiles analysis ranks men and women from the lowest 
to highest earners. This is then divided into four even groups to 
show the proportions of men and women in each of these four 
earnings groups.

How are Pay Gap and Bonus Gap calculated?
The pay gap is the measure of the difference between 
men’s and women’s hourly earnings in a company. The 
bonus gap is the difference in all incentive pay received 
by men and women. This includes all bonuses, long-term 
incentives and sales commission payments. 

What’s included in our calculations?
The pay gap data for Astellas includes basic pay, any 
allowances and bonuses paid in April 2017. The bonus gap 
data includes the annual bonus, spot awards and long term 
incentives received in the 12 months up to April 2017.

The data to be used for the gap calculations is the pay and 
bonus data as at 5 April 2017. This data therefore takes 
into account pay before we implemented the 2017 pay 
review and bonus paid for performance year 2015 /2016.

To provide an up to date view of our year-on-year results, 
this summer we intend to share our results for April 2017 
and 2018 to provide a more complete picture.

The regulations require only the results for Astellas Pharma 
Europe Limited (‘APEL’) to be published. 

2017

92%

of employees would consider pay gap if  
deciding between two jobs.

Source: Business in the Community

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

04

Our results
Our median pay gap is higher than the U.K. average for all sectors  
(18.4%1) and for companies operating in the Professional, 
Scientific and Technical sector (22.4%1).

Gender Pay Gap Results
 
Pay gap 
Bonus gap 

MEAN 
33.2% 
57.0% 

MEDIAN
25.1%
49.6%

Pay Quartiles – % of men and women
BAND A  (lowest 25% of earners)

BAND B  (26% – 50%)

14%

86%

49%

51%

BAND C  (51% – 75%)

BAND D  (highest 75% of earners)

Bonus  
participation  
rate

90%

87%

47%

53%

73%

27%

In order to provide a fair view of our results, we asked Mercer, an external reward consultancy, to carry out analysis of the causes of 
the gap.  The analysis clearly shows that the gap is driven by the structure of our workforce.  As the pay quartile diagram illustrates, 
we have lower female representation at the senior levels of our organisation.  Further, employees at senior levels tend to have a 
higher percentage of variable pay. 

The results highlight the need to consider our broader People practices, which we have already begun work on.

1 Office for National Statistics

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

05

Our commitments
Our commitment is to improve the diversity of the workforce at  
Astellas and to this end we are focusing on the following initiatives:

Recognising female talent
We have started to actively work with our recruiters, internal and 
external, to ensure that there is a more diverse representation 
of candidates. Our aim is to ensure line managers are mindful of 
the gender balance of their teams and provide opportunities for 
our female talent to progress.

Already, the makeup of the Management Committee is significantly  
different to that in 2016. Three positions are now held by women,  
when previously there was only one. Our aspiration is that by 
increasing visibility of females in senior positions, more female 
employees will be encouraged to develop their career at Astellas. 
Inclusive work practices
We embrace agile and flexible working at all levels of the 
organisation and will continue to increase awareness of ways of 
working, and embed this through line manager training. This will 
help remove some of the barriers for individuals to work with 
Astellas and allow them to play a role in support of our success.

Diversity & Inclusion
We continue to change as a business and we are on an exciting 
journey. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion, including 
gender diversity, is an important part of this. This year we will be 
starting work on our Diversity and Inclusion strategy and what this  
will mean for our employees as part of the work on our broader 
People Strategy. More details will be shared later this year.

We commit to these actions in the coming year to improve 
diversity in general, and gender representation specifically.

We strongly believe that these commitments will continue to  
make Astellas an inclusive and caring place to work for our diverse  
talent, and further strengthen our workforce to help us succeed. 

Yukio Matsui
President of EMEA Operations

Rochelle Chopamba
SVP Human Resources EMEA

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

06

