  
 

Gender Pay for 

BGC Services (Holdings) LLP (‘BGC’) GFI Securities Limited 
(‘GFI’) and Tower Bridge International Services Limited 

(‘TBIS’) (together the ‘BGC Group’)  

The BGC Group’s commitment to gender diversity 

 

The lack of female presence and progress is a disappointing historical legacy of the financial 

services sector. The BGC Group recognised several years ago that if it was to prosper within 

the  sector  it  had  to  maximise  the  pool  from  which  it  recruited  and  promoted  talent.  This 

included, amongst other diversity initiatives:  

i) 

ii) 

attracting more women to the IDB industry; and  

creating  an  environment  that  enables  more  female  staff  to  have  the 

opportunity to progress into senior positions.   

To help achieve these objectives, the BGC Group launched a global initiative in 2014 called 

the Network of Women (“NOW”). Some notable milestones that NOW has helped to pass are:  

i) 

to enhance the BGC Group’s maternity and family friendly policies making the 

BGC Group the industry leader; and 

ii) 

to  develop  a  pipeline  of  female  talent  by  increasing  the  number  of  female 

graduates on BGC and GFI’s graduate programme year on year.   

The BGC Group and NOW recognise that much ground remains to be covered to achieve an 

optimal gender balance within the organisation, and in senior positions in particular. 

Does the BGC Group have a gender pay gap and if so, why? 

The BGC Group is confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the same job. 

However, according to the various prescribed formula, although not entirely conclusive, the 

BGC Group’s gender pay reporting results do indicate that there is a gap  

For  BGC,  using  the  prescribed  comparison  of  the  mean  numbers,  a  gap  appears  to  the 

detriment of female pay but using a comparison of the median numbers, whilst there is a gap 

in relation to salary levels to the detriment of female pay, the gap in relation to bonus levels 

is to the detriment of male pay. Moreover, a higher percentage of the BGC and TBIS female 

population received a bonus than the male population. 

The  gap  for  the  median  hourly  rate  for  TBIS  staff  (the  entity  employing  the  BGC  Group’s 

support  and  control  staff)  is  relatively  low  at  7.4%,  well  below  both  the  indicative  2017 

financial services sector average of 31% and the UK average across all sectors of 16%1. 

In  some  cases,  the  complexity  of  the  group  structure  has  had  distorting  effects  on  the 

numbers. For example, there are highly paid female employees who work for, but are not 

employed by, GFI (i.e. they are employed by another non-reportable entity within the group), 

whose  salaries  and  bonuses  are  therefore  not  included  but  would  make  a  significant 

difference to the percentages if they were. 

Where there do appear to be pay gaps to the detriment of women, we have reviewed the 

numbers carefully to establish why. We believe the explanation is simple and one alluded to 

above. BGC and GFI are entities in which our fee-earning brokers, rather than support and 

control  staff,  are  employed.  This  population  is  predominantly  male.  For  salary  headcount 

purposes,  just  over  8.1%  of  BGC  staff  are  female  and  for  bonus  headcount  purposes,  the 

number is just over 8.7%. For GFI the percentage numbers are 12.1% and 13.5% respectively. 

These statistics will increase the likelihood of a greater number of the male population being 

amongst  the  higher  earners,  which  affects  all  the  numbers  as  they  are  based  on  mean  or 

median calculations and will affect the prescribed quartile calculations in particular.    

How will BGC’s commitment to gender diversity narrow any gender pay gap? 

The initial answer is simple, by fulfilling the first of our NOW aims of attracting more women 

to  become  BGC  and  GFI  brokers.  As  a  profession,  broking  is  meritocratic.  Brokers  are 

rewarded for revenue they generate. Broking should be gender agnostic.  

However, if an environment has historically been dominated by men and therefore geared 

towards male employees, it is that environment rather than the role itself that may need to 

become more attractive to and inclusive of potential female talent.  

1.Data taken from: PWCs ‘Women in Work Index – closing the gender pay gap’ (March 2018). 

We have begun to meet this challenge but there is more work to be done. The BGC Group will 

continue to explore and promote ways in which flexibility and diversity helps us attract, retain 

and promote the best talent.  

And this is the key for the BGC Group. Gender diversification is not about justifying data or 

ticking inclusion boxes. It is about maximising the talent pool. It is self-evident that we can 

only do this if half the population are fully represented in that pool.  

 

 

