Turners (Soham) Ltd 

Gender Pay Gap - 2017 

 
The hourly gender pay gap contained in this report was calculated as at 5th  April 2017 and bonus data from bonuses paid in the 12 months prior to 
that date. 

 

Turners operates within the Transport & Distribution Sector, where traditionally this has been dominated 
by men. Within this industry sector there is currently a gender split within the sector of 80% male and 20% 
female.1 Turners’ split is 88% male and 11% female.  This is due to Turners being predominately a transport 
company whereby the majority of the workforce are HGV drivers, of which only 1% are female.  

Turners Gender Pay Gap 

The gender pay gap is different from that of equal pay, which ensures that males and females are paid the 
same for carrying out the same work, or work of equal value. Due to the industry we operate within there 
are numerous different contracts all with a variety of terms and conditions designed to meet the needs of 
our different divisions, legal regulations [TUPE] and customers. Despite this, our like for like roles, such as 
drivers and packhouse operatives are paid and treated the same across the company. 

The  UK  gap  in  average  pay  between  men  and  women,  for  all  employees,  is  18.1%2.  Turners’  results  are 
significantly better, with a median gender pay gap is 2.4% and a mean gender pay gap is 4.6%. 

Pay Quartiles  

The below graphs show the gender distribution across Turners within four equal quartiles, based on hourly 
pay.  Females  represent  11%  of  all  employees  within  Turners.  They  are  less  represented,  by  that  very 
nature. 

        Top Quartile        Upper Middle Quartile      Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile 

 

 

 

 

Bonus 

Management and a high proportion of HGV drivers are eligible for productivity or performance payments 
and  safe  and  efficient  driving  bonuses.  Due  to  99%  of  HGV  drivers  being  male,  this  distorts  the  picture 
across the bonus eligible workforce. 

 

 

13% 

60% 

 

 

 

 

Bonus Difference between Males and Females 

The mean average male bonus pay is 68% higher than females and the median average male bonus pay is 
100% higher than females. 

Future 

Turners are working on initiatives to address the imbalance of women in the workplace. Traditionally it is 
hard  to  recruit  HGV  Drivers,  let  alone  female  drivers.  We  have  introduced  flexible  working  practices  and 
flexible shift patterns, a new apprenticeship scheme is in development and with our work with local schools 
and colleges it is our hope to redress this balance. 

We confirm that the data reported is accurate and in accordance with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

For and on behalf of 

Turners (Soham) Ltd 

 

 

Paul Day 

Managing Director 

 

 

 

1 Office for National Statistics - Employment by Industry (Labour Force Survey) Average from April 2016 – March 2017 
2 Office for National Statistics 
 

