FACTSET EUROPE LIMITED  
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

Across the globe, clients value FactSet’s dedication to service. It is not just what we do, it is how 
we do it, that helps us deliver on our mission to solve our clients’ greatest challenges with the 
power of collaboration and makes us a great place to work. 

From our founding almost 40 years ago until today, FactSet 
has been grounded in the belief that our best ideas can come 
from anyone, anywhere, anytime. We have a diverse global 
workforce and we do our utmost to foster an inclusive culture 
where everyone can bring their whole self to work, contribute 
at their maximum potential and grow in their career. We believe 
that FactSet’s designation as one of the UK’s Best Workplaces™ 
by Great Place to Work® reinforces our commitment to our 
innovative and industry-leading talent. 

Below is our gender pay gap data as of April 5, 2017, which covers 
FactSet Europe Limited, FactSet’s only UK entity with 250 or more 
employees, in accordance with the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender 
Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 reporting requirements. 

PAY QUARTILES
This chart shows the gender distribution at FactSet Europe 
Limited across four equally sized quartiles: 
 

PAY AND BONUS GAP 
This table shows the mean and median gender pay gap both for 
hourly pay rates and bonus payments during the reporting period:

Hourly Rate
Bonus Payments

Mean
12.3%
43.1%

Median
2.2%
30.4%

BONUS PAYMENTS BY GENDER
The percentage of employees of each gender receiving bonus 
payments during the reporting period:

Copyright © 2018 FactSet Europe Limited. All rights reserved. www.factset.com

WHAT FACTSET IS DOING TO ADDRESS THE GAP
FactSet is at the intersection between technology and finance, 
and women are often under-represented in both industries.

FactSet Europe Limited’s employee distribution as of the 
April 5, 2017 reference date, was 70% men and 30% women. 
This breakdown is also reflected in our pay quartile data in a 
consistent way.  We are encouraged to see a positive distribution 
of women in the two middle quartiles, and that although 
there is an imbalance in the top quartile, we believe it is not 
insurmountable.  We expect we will address this imbalance with 
the execution of our long-term Diversity and Inclusion strategy.  

One of FactSet’s long-term goals is to be the career destination 
for the best and the brightest. We believe that the most effective 
and innovative teams are diverse by a variety of measures. 
Increasing the representation of women is an important 
component of broadening diversity and inclusion. We have made 
progress in the last few years and still have work to do.  

In 2017, we focused on Diversity and Inclusion as a key business 
initiative. Our global CEO, Phil Snow, signed the CEO Action for 
Diversity & Inclusion, signifying the company’s pledge to act 
on supporting an inclusive workplace. In 2018, we will focus 
on executing our diversity strategy, including expanding our 
recruiting practices, investing in employee resource groups, 
creating additional sponsorship and mentoring programs and 
continuing to build best practices globally. 

FactSet already has numerous informal groups designed to 
support career growth for women, including active Lean In 
Circles in several offices. These small groups enable networking, 
personal and professional development and a strong community 
of women within the firm.

Our Commitment to Our Employees and Our Industry 
I confirm that the above data is accurate and in accordance with 
the UK gender reporting legislation. 

In addition, I want to reinforce my personal commitment to 
bringing additional focus to increasing FactSet’s internal pipeline 
of diverse leaders and providing programs to support their 
development. 

Andrew Burton 
Vice President, Director - EMEA Human Resources 
FactSet Europe Limited

