 

 

TD4 BRANDS GENDER PAY GAP REPORT  

TO APRIL 2017 

 
About this Document 
The draft Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, requires all UK employers with more than 250 staff, to publish their first 
gender pay gap report by 5th April 2018. In accordance with this Act, the following report details TD4 Brands(cid:146) gender pay gap figures for all staff 
within our business. 
 
WHAT IS A GENDER PAY GAP? 
A gender pay gap is the difference between the total hourly earnings of the men and women (cid:150) regardless of the nature of their work (cid:150) across an 
entire organisation, business sector, industry, or the economy as a whole. It can be driven by the different number of men and women across all 
roles. 
 
It is different from an equal pay comparison, which would involve direct comparison of two people or groups of people carrying out the same, 
similar, or equivalent work. 
 
WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT? 
The UK(cid:146)s current gender pay gap stands at 17.4%. The government is seeking to reduce this gap to increase both equality and economic productivity. 
 

 

 

 
OUR COMMITMENT 
 
Dawn O(cid:146)Sullivan 
Co-Founder, Executive Director, TD4 Brands (UK) 
 
TD4 Brands is committed to ensuring that all members of staff are treated and rewarded fairly, irrespective of their gender, or any other 
characteristic. We have always operated our business on the principle of equal pay for work of equal value: I am keen to make sure that we do not 
make the mistake of focusing too heavily on the numbers in this report which could lead us to unhelpful or regressive actions. An example of this 
would be trying to fit people into jobs to influence statistics. Our aim is to explore opportunities to ensure that our teams can reach their full 
potential. 
 
By producing these statistics, the value is in the awareness it raises, the questions it prompts, and the action we take. (cid:145)How can we create an even 
more inclusive work place?(cid:146) We are proud of what we have achieved in our business to date: We will continue to foster honest conversations with all 
our teams, regardless of gender or level of seniority, so that we can truly understand any barriers that prevent anyone fulfilling their potential within 
our growing business.  
 
 

 

 
Dawn O(cid:146)Sullivan 
Co-Founder, Executive Director 
TD4 Brands (UK)  

OUR RESULTS 2017 
 

 

RATE PER HOUR 

The Mean  
(rate per hr) 
The Medium  
(rate per hr) 

TD4 
Brands 
16.8% 

UK All 
Service 
18.8% 

National 

17.4% 

0% 

17.6% 

18.4% 

GENDER BONUS 
GAP 
The Mean  
 
The Medium  
 

TD4 
Brands 
35.8% 

15.7% 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

QUARTILES  
 
Lower  

Lower Middle  

Upper Middle  

Upper  

MALE 

FEMALE 

23.7% 
 
28.6% 
 
32.9% 
 
38.2% 
 

76.3% 

71.4% 

67.1% 

61.8% 

61% of those in our highest paid senior leadership roles are women 
67% of our specialist roles are fulfilled by women 
76% of our most junior workforce in our lowest paid jobs are women. 

-
-
-

 
 
 

 

 
THE DETAIL BEHIND THE DATA 
We place a great amount of emphasis on fairness, it(cid:146)s at the heart of who we are and our approach to pay is no different.  
 
As with many organisations and the economy as a whole, the key behind TD4 Brands gender pay gap is the balance of men and women across job 
levels. For example: 
 

 
As with most small businesses, there are proportionately fewer senior roles and the turnover at this level is much lower than at more junior levels, 
which means vacancies for such roles do not arise as frequently. 
 
We have already mentioned the danger of (cid:145)chasing numbers(cid:146) and if our priority was purely to reduce our gender pay gap figures, we could, for 
example, focus on increasing male representation at our junior level. This would impact on our figures but not help to achieve our aim to remove 
barriers to progression and offer equal opportunities for all, regardless of gender. 
 
Currently, 70% of our junior female workforce have progressed to management roles: We will continue to work hard to ensure career progression 
within the business for both our male and female employees and, when opportunities arise, aim to promoted from within into the senior 
management roles. 
 
 
 
 

 
OUR ACTION PLAN: 

 

1.
 
2.
 
3.
 

Explore new ways to attract, promote and retain female talent, particularly at a senior level. 
Improving recruitment advertising and, in turn, the processing of internal talent. 
We have in place a store based Personal Development Programme for new promotees: We will encourage senior managers to identify talent 
prior to a new vacancy arising so that we have in place, trained, competent employees ready to take on management positions as soon as we 
have a vacancy.  

 
 
Declaration 
I can confirm that our data is accurate and has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017. 
 

 

 
Dawn O(cid:146)Sullivan 
Co-Founder, Executive Director 
TD4 Brands (UK)  

