caf GENDEr PAY 
GAP REPORT 2017

Gender pay gap legislation came into effect in the UK to 
encourage employers to identify where gender pay gaps 
exist and to take action to address any imbalance. 

A gender pay gap is a measure of difference (a gap) 
expressed as a comparison between what, on average, 
men earn and what, on average, women earn. This is 
different to equal pay which is where individuals are 
paid differently for performing the same or similar work, 
or work of equal value. 

We are confident that men and women across CAF are 
paid equally for doing equivalent jobs. We take equality 
very seriously and have robust job evaluation, salary 
benchmarking and review processes in place to ensure 
this happens. But we recognise we do have a gender 
pay gap in CAF and while we do not believe this is 
because of inherent gender bias, we aspire to  
closing the gap in the coming years.  

CAF’s gender pay gap report provides a view of the  
overall mean and median gender pay based on figures 
for April 2017 and bonus pay gap based on bonuses 
paid in the previous 12 months from April 2017.

CAF’s mean gender pay gap is 28%
The mean pay gap is the difference between the  
average hourly pay of men and women.

CAF’s median gender pay gap is 34.2%
The median pay gap is the difference between the 
midpoints in the ranges of hourly pay of men  
and women.

CAF’s mean bonus gap is 42.5%
The mean bonus gap shown is the difference  
between the actual average bonus paid to men  
and women.

CAF’s median bonus gap is 33.3%
The median bonus gap is the difference between the 
midpoints in the ranges of actual bonuses paid to 
men and women.

% of men who received a bonus
% of women who received a bonus

55.6%
47.7% 

CAF gender pay quartiles
The following chart shows the percentage of women 
and men who were receiving full pay in April 2017 in 
four broadly equal quartile pay bands. This is achieved 
by splitting these employees according to their pay into 
four broadly equal bands – lower, lower middle, upper 
middle, and upper quartiles.

CAF Gender Pay Quartiles - 2017
(% of men and women in each pay quartile)

UPPER 
QUARTILE 

(4)

UPPER 
MIDDLE
QUARTILE 

(3)

LOWER
MIDDLE
QUARTILE 

(2)

LOWER
QUARTILE 

(1)

FEMALE 40.6%

MALE 59.4%

FEMALE 55.3%

MALE 44.7%

FEMALE 75.7%

MALE 24.3%

FEMALE 77.7%

MALE 22.3%

Pay gap by each individual quartile
Quartile

Quartile 4 (top quartile)

Quartile 3 (upper middle quartile) 

Quartile 2 (lower middle quartile)

Quartile 1 (lower quartile)

 
Why do we have a gap?

Our gender pay gap is primarily because we have a 
large proportion of women in non-managerial,  
customer service and administrative roles (see lower 
and lower middle quartile figures above) and more men 
than women in managerial, technical and specialist  
roles which attract higher pay (see upper middle and 
top quartile figures above). 

Although we recognise that a pay gap exists, there 
are some factors in CAF that to some extent skew our 
gender pay gap figures including pay for some staff on 
24 hour standby and some from the financial services 
sector, whose pay reflects the fact that their pensions 
were fully funded and can no longer contribute to an 
occupational pension scheme. 

CAF pays modest performance related bonuses to a 
little over half of our employees (50.6%). In the  
calculation to determine the bonus pay gap, we report 
actual bonuses paid. We enable flexible working to both 
males and females as part of our culture and this is 
greatly valued by our staff. The average cash value of 
bonuses paid to women is lower than bonuses paid to 
men in CAF. This is because we are required to report 
the actual bonus paid after it has been pro-rated for 
part time working. As the vast majority of part time staff 
are women, bonuses are therefore reduced to reflect 
their part time hours. This contributes to a bonus pay 
gap. Additionally, because we link any bonus paid to 
an individual’s grade, lower grades therefore receive a 
lower bonus. As the majority of our lower grades are 
held by women, this further contributes to the bonus 
pay gap.

8
1
3
0
/
A
1
9
3
2

Registered charity number 268369

Mean

7%

4.7%

3.1%

0%

Median

0.4%

6.6%

4.6%

0%

How we are addressing the pay gap

Recruitment
We aim to recruit from as wide a pool as possible and 
our recruitment policy together with training provides 
our recruiting managers with essential knowledge and 
skills to help ensure unconscious bias is avoided.

Retention
Once we have recruited the right people to CAF we want 
them to stay. We support flexibility in terms of working 
hours and work patterns; we provide diverse and  
comprehensive training and development, including 
coaching, mentoring, apprenticeships, management 
development, and support to achieve professional  
qualifications. We undertake periodic employee  
engagement surveys and work with our Employee 
Council to action issues and suggestions raised by our 
staff. We have a zero tolerance to discrimination in any 
form in the workplace and provide clear guidance for 
managers and staff on this, including an equal  
opportunities policy. 

Pay
We have a clear reward policy where roles are sized by 
independent job evaluation and salaries are determined 
by market and industry benchmarking. We review our 
salaries annually to ensure they are fair and equitable 
and that men and women are paid equally for doing 
equivalent jobs. Our annual pay review process is  
underpinned by robust moderation processes to  
ensure fairness of approach. 

Where bonuses are paid, they are modest, conform to 
clear criteria and linked to an individual’s grade  
to prevent favouritism and bias. Last year (2016/7), 
bonus payments amounted to 3.2% of our total pay bill. 
Bonus payments are also subject to a robust  
moderation process.

We recognise we have a gender pay gap in CAF and 
while we do not believe this is because of inherent  
gender bias, we aspire to closing the gap in the  
coming years.  

I confirm the accuracy of the data we’ve reported.

Sir John Low
Chief Executive

