 

67%

 
Together Trust 2017 gender pay gap report  
Changes to legislation means that employers with over 250 employees are now required to 
publish information about the gender pay gap in their organisation annually. The information 
published has to be based on the number of employees as of 5 April 2017.  
Who are the Together Trust? 
The Together Trust is a charity providing special education, residential services, fostering, 
family support and community services. We support more than 2,000 vulnerable young 
people and adults across the North West including Manchester, Liverpool, Cheshire and 
Lancashire each year. 
We are committed to ensuring that everyone who works for the Trust has the right to be paid 
equally for work of the same level. 
What is the gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap is the average difference between men and women’s average earnings 
across the organisation.  
Gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay and the existence of a pay gap does not 
indicate that men are paid more than women for performing the same role.  
The median Gender Pay Gap for the economy as a whole was 18.1% (based on the Annual 
Survey of Household Earnings as published in 2016). 
How is the gender pay gap worked out?  
To work out our gender pay gap we determined the hourly rate of ordinary pay based on the 
relevant elements of pay and hours worked.  
The new regulations define what is considered to be ‘ordinary pay’. This includes a range of 
pay elements including shift payments and other allowances. ‘Ordinary pay’ excludes any 
overtime paid in addition to an individual’s basic pay. 
We collected our data on 5 April 2017, when our workforce consisted of 73.4% women and 
26.6% men. 
Our results 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Pay Gap 
 

% Staff Receiving a 
Bonus 

Q2 (Lower Middle)

Q3 (Upper Middle)

Male

Female

27%

28%

73%

72%

Q4 (Upper)

33%

Q1 (Lower)

18%

Table.2 
 

Table.1 
 

82%

Mean  Median 
11.9% 
0.0% 

6.9% 
0.0% 

 

Male 

 
Female 

0.0% 

0.0% 

s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
 
e
l
i
t
r
a
u
Q
 
y
a
P

 

 
How to understand these results 
Pay quartile analysis  
We placed our rates of pay into order of value then divided the list into four equal sections. 
The percentages show the proportion of male and female employees in each section. 
Mean  
The mean is the average of a set of numbers. All numbers from the data set are added 
together then divided by the number of numbers added in.  
Our mean gender pay gap is 6.9% which is the equivalent of £0.76p per hour difference.   
Median  
The median is the middle number in a list of numbers. To find the median you put all 
numbers into numerical order. For an odd number of results, the median is the middle 
number. For an even number the median is the mean of the two central numbers.  
Our median gender pay gap is 11.9% which is the equivalent of £1.11p per hour difference.   
The Together Trust has no payments that can be determined as bonus payments.  
What our results mean 
In common with the care sector as a whole, Together Trust’s workforce is predominantly 
female. At the time of collecting the data 73.4% of our workforce was female, this has meant 
that women outnumber men in every quartile.  
Because we have a greater proportion of men in the upper pay quartiles compared with 
lower pay quartiles, and a greater proportion of women in the lower pay quartiles compared 
with the upper pay quartiles, this has had an impact on our gender pay gap.  
What we want to do to reduce the gap 
We are going to do more to investigate and understand our results. We are planning to 
identify any actions we can take to reduce and ultimately eradicate our gender pay gap in 
the short, medium and long term. 
Right now we are working on a job evaluation scheme for our workforce. And in the next 
year we will begin to implement our new pay policy that will add complete transparency to 
fair and equal pay for equal work.  
Declaration 
I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

Mark Lee 
Chief Executive 

