Smith &
Byford

Gender Pay Gap Report

Introduction
All UK organisations which employ over 250 employees are required to report annually on their gender pay gap. The gender pay 
gap is defined as the difference in the average earnings of men and women over a standard period of time, regardless of their 
role or seniority.

Smith & Byford is a family owned and operated Building Services Company.  Established in 1966 and now with more than 350 
employees, not only are we committed to the development of excellence in service delivery; we are also dedicated to ensuring 
Smith & Byford is a place for all by celebrating and supporting diversity and inclusion. When it comes to gender equality we 
are committed to creating a level playing field so everyone has an equal chance of success. This applies to all our processes and 
policies, ensuring opportunities are fair and equitable for all.

Equal pay for equal work 
We are confident all members of our team are paid equally for equivalent jobs. Our roles are classified by level and type in the 
organisation, enabling us to identify like-for-like roles. This means we can accurately measure and eliminate pay disparity and 
also gives us the ability to recruit gender neutrally because pay is benchmarked by role. A continued emphasis on equal pay is 
important to the Board and each year we analyse pay to ensure the parity we have worked to achieve is maintained.

Gender pay analysis
Gender pay measurement, as defined by the gender pay legislation, is distinct from equal pay as it is not measuring the 
consistency of pay for roles of the same level. Instead it compares the average pay by gender of all roles collectively. We know 
that our gender pay gap is due to the low number of females within our business, in particular at senior levels. 

It is widely known that the engineering sector suffers from female under-representation. This is something Smith & Byford is 
determined to address by attracting more women to the industry and supporting the development of more females into senior 
and technical roles within our Business. Our current overall representation is 80% men and 20% women. In the Upper middle 
quartile we are currently represented by just 1% females.  This quartile is generally inclusive of our qualified engineers; which 
has historically been carried out by Men.  By attracting more women to the industry and supporting their development, we can 
all realise the benefits that greater diversity brings. Although the industry is working hard to break down many barriers and 
perceptions which have held the sector back, we need to fast-track this change. 

Proactive approach
As part of our plan to address the gender pay gap we have introduced a number of pro-active measures; from prioritising flexible 
working to supporting and developing female leaders through leadership and development training courses.  In the previous 
18 months we have increased female representation in our senior team (Company Directors and Heads of Service) from 27% to 
41%. This has been through the development of a new team and subsequent internal promotion and the appointment of a new 
female Director. We will continue to develop and monitor this upward trend. 

Recognising the under-representation in our industry and the looming skills crisis, Smith & Byford are proud to have been 
involved in pioneering initiatives such as ‘Wired for Success’.  We worked with one of our Clients and a training body to develop 
a two year training programme based around the new NVQ Level 3 Certificate in installing, testing and compliance of electrical 
installations in a dwelling.  Traditional routes to becoming an electrician are not flexible enough to accommodate women’s 
needs, and perceptions that this non-traditional environment is unsuitable for females further discourages them from seeking 
a career in the industry.  The pilot course supported 12 female apprentices through their training with a flexible approach to 
learning and skills development.  

Long term goals
We are aware that we are not able to greatly impact our gender pay gap in the short term.  We have set long term goals to carry 
out in-depth training, support and succession planning. Our apprenticeship scheme is key to our succession plans; we manage 
a large apprenticeship scheme, consisting of around 10-15% of our total workforce at any one time. We aim to drive long-term 
change and work proactively with local colleges and schools, with the aim of inspiring the next generation of female engineers 
and technical skilled employees.  

We do also recognise that by driving the recruitment of further female apprentices, they will be joining the organisation into 
predominantly entry level roles. Whilst this is a positive step for the future of our workforce, it may reflect negatively on our 
gender pay gap in the short term. 

Findings
Difference in Hourly Rate

•	 Womens	mean	hourly	rate	is	22%	lower	than	men’s
•	 Womens	median	hourly	rate	is	31%	lower	than	men’s

The mean hourly rate is the average hourly wage across the entire organisation so the mean gender pay gap is a measure of the 
difference between women’s mean hourly wage and men’s mean hourly wage. 

The median hourly rate is calculated by ranking all employees from the highest paid to the lowest paid, and taking the hourly 
wage of the person in the middle; so the median gender pay gap is the difference between women’s median hourly wage (the 
middle paid woman) and men’s median hourly wage (the middle paid man).

Proportion of women in each pay quartile

The graphs below outline the distribution of gender across four equal quartiles of pay from the lowest 25% of earners to the 
highest 25% of earners.

7%

93%

1%

99%

27%

46%

73%

54%

Top Quartile (Highest Paid)

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile (Lowest Paid)

Female

Male

The Board have reviewed the findings of the Gender Pay Gap analysis and have confirmed that the published information is 
accurate. 

Andrew Wilson, Finance Director
April 2018

Smith &
Byford

