                Personal     Small business     Wealth management     Business & institutions     About us             Search site                Site Search         Menu       Skip to Content   Who we are  + Show Who we are Dropdown   Show Who we are Dropdown    We’re focused on serving our clients to help them live their financial lives.    Our company     Our strategy    Our businesses    Our values    Our culture      Our leadership     Hear from our CEO      Where we are     United States & Canada    Asia Pacific    Europe, Middle East, & Africa    Latin America      History & heritage     Our heritage    Our roots    The rise of an industry    The modern era    Technology & innovations             Better Money Habits®  We've partnered with Sal Khan and Khan Academy to give you a simple, self-paced learning experience.....  learn More about Better Money Habits®      Empowering people with disabilities  Through advocacy, employment, and volunteering, we're proud to support people with disabilities...  learn More about Empowering people with disabilities      Responsible growth  See how we're bringing our approach to responsible growth to life..  learn More about Responsible growth       What guides us  + Show What guides us Dropdown   Show What guides us Dropdown    Making financial lives better through the power of every connection.    Responsible growth  See how our focus on responsible growth drives every aspect of our business and culture      Making an impact  Investing in people and communities through our business and partnerships    Environmental sustainability    Driving economic & social progress    Enabling financial health      Our business practices  Maintaining a culture of being accountable and responsible    Governance    Risk management    Client focus    Vendor management      Our people  Investing in our employees at home and in the workplace so they can better serve our clients    Diversity & inclusion    Attracting & developing talent    Wellness    Recognizing & rewarding performance    Volunteerism      Reporting  Providing detailed reports, fact sheets and financial updates about the way we do business    GRI Content Index    Report center    Materiality             Arts & Culture  We value the impact art makes on communities and individuals around the world..  learn More about Arts & Culture      Empowering people with disabilities  Through advocacy, employment, and volunteering, we're proud to support people with disabilities...  learn More about Empowering people with disabilities      Report center  Get fact sheets, reports and financial updates, and learn about our lending, investing and giving...  learn More about Report center       Partnering locally  + Show Partnering locally Dropdown   Show Partnering locally Dropdown    What's happening in your community?    United States    Find by State:   Select State    > Alabama    > Alaska    > Arizona    > Arkansas    > California    > Colorado    > Connecticut    > Delaware    > Florida    > Georgia    > Hawaii    > Idaho    > Illinois    > Indiana    > Iowa    > Kansas    > Kentucky    > Louisiana    > Maine    > Maryland    > Massachusetts    > Michigan    > Minnesota    > Mississippi    > Missouri    > Montana    > Nebraska    > Nevada    > New Hampshire    > New Jersey    > New Mexico    > New York    > North Carolina    > North Dakota    > Ohio    > Oklahoma    > Oregon    > Pennsylvania    > Rhode Island    > South Carolina    > South Dakota    > Tennessee    > Texas    > Utah    > Vermont    > Virginia    > Washington    > West Virginia    > Wisconsin    > Wyoming       Featured Metro Areas:   Select Metro Area    >
                                                                                                            Atlanta, GA    >
                                                                                                            Baltimore, MD    >
                                                                                                            Boston, MA    >
                                                                                                            Charlotte, NC    >
                                                                                                            Chicago, IL    >
                                                                                                            Dallas, TX    >
                                                                                                            Detroit, MI    >
                                                                                                            Greater Los Angeles, CA    >
                                                                                                            Greater Washington, D.C.    >
                                                                                                            Houston, TX    >
                                                                                                            New York, NY    >
                                                                                                            Phoenix, AZ    >
                                                                                                            San Diego, CA    >
                                                                                                            San Francisco Bay Area, CA    >
                                                                                                            Seattle, WA    >
                                                                                                            Silicon Valley, CA    >
                                                                                                            South Florida, FL        Global     United States & Canada    Asia Pacific    Europe, Middle East & Africa    Latin America    VIEW ALL    How we're involved     Investing in women    Supporting people with disabilities    Service members & veterans    Responsible growth    Hunger relief    VIEW ALL    Resources     Report center    Looking for grants or sponsorships    Find a community development financial institution near you             Investing in women  We are empowering women to make meaningful contributions within our company and around the world...  learn More about Investing in women      Empowering people with disabilities  Through advocacy, employment, and volunteering, we're proud to support people with disabilities...  learn More about Empowering people with disabilities      Supporting those who've served  See how we're helping service members and veterans make the transition to civilian life...  learn More about Supporting those who've served       Newsroom   Show Newsroom Dropdown    Welcome to Bank of America's Newsroom      Press releases  Bank of America press releases, searchable by category and year    Press kits  Comprehensive information on newsworthy subjects        Journalist resources  Resources for journalists writing stories about Bank of America    Executive biographies  Biographies of Bank of America executives        Awards & recognition  Awards and recognition Bank of America has received from publications and organizations            Investor relations   Show Investor relations Dropdown    Access Financial Information      Financial information  Review financial information including our SEC filings, press releases and quarterly earnings    Investor presentations  Access recent financial presentations delivered to investors    Fixed income information  See credit ratings, information on preferred stock and securitizations and additional fixed income investor materials        Annual reports & proxy statements  View and download current or historical annual reports and proxy statements    Stock information  Look up your stock price, view historical quotes, dividend information and more    Shareholder services  Access your shareholder account, review your history, and perform account transactions        Newsroom  Access press materials, speeches, executive biographies, corporate facts and more    Corporate governance  Learn more about our management team, board of directors and the principles that govern our business    Contact us  Reach our investor relations team by phone or e-mail        DID YOU KNOW?        Careers   Show Careers Dropdown                    Home / What guides us / UK Gender Pay Gap Report     Print this article  Share this article              Bank of America Merrill Lynch publishes UK Gender Pay Gap Report      Bank of America Merrill Lynch has published its first UK gender pay gap report .    UK gender pay gap key points   In January 2018, Sheri Bronstein, global HR executive, announced that following a recent review of our total compensation for US and UK employees, results showed that across the company compensation received by women is equal to on average 99% of that received by men.  For the purposes of UK gender pay gap reporting, companies are required to disclose the mean (average) and median pay gap between women and men across an entire organization. The report does not focus on the compensation that women and men receive for performing the same or comparable roles.  The UK gender pay gap report shows that as of April 2017, we have a mean UK gender pay gap of 28.7% and a median UK gender pay gap of 30.5% across our three UK legal entities.  The underlying reason for our gender pay gap is that there are significantly more men than women in senior and revenue-generating roles, making the ‘average’ pay for men higher than the ‘average’ pay for women.  We continue to work hard to improve gender balance through our attraction, development and engagement programmes which focus on bringing female talent to our company, advancing women at all levels and supporting the economic empowerment of women around the world.   Read the full report here                         Open Location    Open United States & Canada       Select Country   Select a Partnering Locally Country to view topics   View Partnering Locally content for United States        Select a Partnering Locally State to view topics   Viewing Partnering Locally content for All States   View Partnering Locally content for All States  View Partnering Locally content for Alabama  View Partnering Locally content for Alaska  View Partnering Locally content for Arizona  View Partnering Locally content for Arkansas  View Partnering Locally content for California  View Partnering Locally content for Colorado  View Partnering Locally content for Connecticut  View Partnering Locally content for Delaware  View Partnering Locally content for Florida  View Partnering Locally content for Georgia  View Partnering Locally content for Hawaii  View Partnering Locally content for Idaho  View Partnering Locally content for Illinois  View Partnering Locally content for Indiana  View Partnering Locally content for Iowa  View Partnering Locally content for Kansas  View Partnering Locally content for Kentucky  View Partnering Locally content for Louisiana  View Partnering Locally content for Maine  View Partnering Locally content for Maryland  View Partnering Locally content for Massachusetts  View Partnering Locally content for Michigan  View Partnering Locally content for Minnesota  View Partnering Locally content for Mississippi  View Partnering Locally content for Missouri  View Partnering Locally content for Montana  View Partnering Locally content for Nebraska  View Partnering Locally content for Nevada  View Partnering Locally content for New Hampshire  View Partnering Locally content for New Jersey  View Partnering Locally content for New Mexico  View Partnering Locally content for New York  View Partnering Locally content for North Carolina  View Partnering Locally content for North Dakota  View Partnering Locally content for Ohio  View Partnering Locally content for Oklahoma  View Partnering Locally content for Oregon  View Partnering Locally content for Pennsylvania  View Partnering Locally content for Rhode Island  View Partnering Locally content for South Carolina  View Partnering Locally content for South Dakota  View Partnering Locally content for Tennessee  View Partnering Locally content for Texas  View Partnering Locally content for Utah  View Partnering Locally content for Vermont  View Partnering Locally content for Virginia  View Partnering Locally content for Washington  View Partnering Locally content for West Virginia  View Partnering Locally content for Wisconsin  View Partnering Locally content for Wyoming         View Partnering Locally content for Atlanta, GA    View Partnering Locally content for Baltimore, MD    View Partnering Locally content for Boston, MA    View Partnering Locally content for Charlotte, NC    View Partnering Locally content for Chicago, IL    View Partnering Locally content for Dallas, TX    View Partnering Locally content for Detroit, MI    View Partnering Locally content for Greater Los Angeles, CA    View Partnering Locally content for Greater Washington, D.C.    View Partnering Locally content for Houston, TX    View Partnering Locally content for New York, NY    View Partnering Locally content for Phoenix, AZ    View Partnering Locally content for San Diego, CA    View Partnering Locally content for San Francisco Bay Area, CA    View Partnering Locally content for Seattle, WA    View Partnering Locally content for Silicon Valley, CA    View Partnering Locally content for South Florida, FL      View Partnering Locally content for Asia Pacific    View Partnering Locally content for Europe, Middle East & Africa    View Partnering Locally content for Latin America     Open How we're involved     View Partnering Locally Topic: Arts & Culture    View Partnering Locally Topic: Basic Human Services    View Partnering Locally Topic: Better Money Habits ®    View Partnering Locally Topic: Responsible growth    View Partnering Locally Topic: Investing in women    View Partnering Locally Topic: Global Ambassadors    View Partnering Locally Topic: Global Programs    View Partnering Locally Topic: Hunger Relief    View Partnering Locally Topic: Neighborhood Builders ®    View Partnering Locally Topic: Neighborhood Preservation    View Partnering Locally Topic: Service Members & Veterans    View Partnering Locally Topic: Small Business Support    View Partnering Locally Topic: Student Leaders ®    View Partnering Locally Topic: Supporting People with Disabilities    See all Partnering Locally Topics                                Who we are   Our company    Our leadership    Where we are    History & heritage       What guides us   Responsible growth    Making an impact    Our business practices    Our people    Reporting       Partnering locally       See what is happening near you        Newsroom    Press releases , link will open in new window     Press kits , link will open in new window     Journalist resources , link will open in new window     Executive biographies , link will open in new window     Awards & recognition , link will open in new window        Investor relations    Financial information , link will open in new window     Investor presentations , link will open in new window     Fixed income information , link will open in new window     Annual reports & proxy statements , link will open in new window     Stock information , link will open in new window     Shareholder services , link will open in new window              Careers     Locations     Contact us     Help     Accessible banking     Privacy & security     Social community guidelines     Site map     Advertising practices     Advertising practices  We strive to provide you with information about products and services you might find interesting and useful. Relationship-based ads and online behavioral advertising help us do that.  Here's how it works: We gather information about your online activities, such as the searches you conduct on our Sites and the pages you visit. This information may be used to deliver advertising on our Sites and offline (for example, by phone, email and direct mail) that's customized to meet specific interests you may have.  If you prefer that we not use this information, you can opt out of online behavioral advertising . If you opt out, though, you may still receive generic advertising. Also, if you opt out of online behavioral advertising, you may still see ads when you sign in to your account, for example through Online Banking or MyMerrill. These ads are based on your specific account relationships with us.  To learn more about relationship-based ads, online behavioral advertising and our privacy practices, please review the Bank of America Online Privacy Notice and our Online Privacy FAQs .                                Connect with us   , link opens in a new window     , link opens in a new window     , link opens in a new window      This site contains PDF documents that require you to have the latest version of Adobe Reader in order to read them.  Download the latest update of Adobe Reader .   Bank of America, N.A. Member FDIC. Equal Housing Lender         Investing in securities involves risks, and there is always the potential of losing money when you invest in securities. This material does not take into account your particular investment objectives, financial situations or needs and is not intended as a recommendation, offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any security, financial instrument, or strategy. Before acting on any information in this material, you should consider whether it is suitable for your particular circumstances and, if necessary, seek professional advice. Any opinions expressed herein are given in good faith, are subject to change without notice, and are only correct as of the stated date of their issue. Content contained herein may have been produced by an outside party that is not affiliated with Bank of America or any of its affiliates (Bank of America). Opinions or ideas expressed are not necessarily those of Bank of America nor do they reflect their views or endorsement. These materials are for informational purposes only. Bank of America does not assume liability for any loss or damage resulting from anyone's reliance on the information provided. Certain links may direct you away from Bank of America to an unaffiliated site.  Bank of America has not been involved in the preparation of the content supplied at the unaffiliated sites and does not guarantee or assume any responsibility for its content. When you visit these sites, you are agreeing to all of their terms of use, including their privacy and security policies. Merrill Lynch Wealth Management makes available products and services offered by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (MLPF&S), a registered broker-dealer and Member Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ), and other subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation (BofA Corp.). Insurance and annuity products are offered through Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc., a licensed insurance agency and wholly owned subsidiary of BofA Corp. Trust and fiduciary services are provided by U.S. Trust, a division of Bank of America, N.A., and other subsidiaries of BofA Corp. Banking products are provided by Bank of America, N.A. and affiliated banks, Members FDIC and wholly owned subsidiaries of BofA Corp.  Investment, insurance and annuity products: Are Not FDIC Insured | Are Not Bank Guaranteed | May Lose Value | Are Not Deposits | Are Not Insured by Any Federal Government Agency | Are Not a Condition to Any Banking Service or Activity MLPF&S and Bank of America, N.A. make available investment products sponsored, managed, distributed or provided by companies that are affiliates of BofA Corp or in which BofA Corp has a substantial economic interest. Company goals are inspirational and not guarantees or promises that all goals will be met. Statistics and metrics included in our ESG documents are estimates and may be based on assumptions or developing standards. General disclaimer for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.                                        