	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  Gender	  Pay	  Gap	  Report	  	  	  	  	  

	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  March	  2018	  

	  

	  

	  

	  
	  
	  

	  

	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  

	  
	  

	  

	  
INTRODUCTION	  
	  
	  
Active	   Life	   is	   an	   employer	   required	   by	   law	   to	   carry	   out	  
Gender	   Pay	   Gap	   reporting	   under	   the	   Equality	   Act	   2010	  
(Gender	  Pay	  Gap	  Information)	  Regulations	  2017.	  Under	  new	  
legislation	  that	  was	  introduced	  in	  April	  2017,	  UK	  employers	  
with	  more	  than	  250	  employees	  are	  required	  to	  publish	  their	  
gender	   pay	   gap.	   This	   shows	   the	   size	   of	   the	   gap	   in	   pay	  
between	   the	   average	   pay	   of	   male	   and	   female	   employees.	  
Care	   should	   be	   taken	   not	   to	   confuse	   this	   with	   equal	   pay.	  
Equal	  pay	  requires	  that	  men	  and	  women,	  who	  carry	  out	  the	  
same	   or	   similar	   jobs	   or	   work	   of	   equal	   value,	   are	   paid	   the	  
same.	  
	  
To	   determine	   an	   organisation’s	   Gender	   Pay	   Gap	   a	   set	   of	  
calculations	   are	   carried	   out	   that	   show	   the	   difference	  
between	   the	   average	   earnings	   of	   the	   male	   and	   female	  
employees	   across	   the	   organisation.	   Active	   Life’s	   statistics	  
were	  compiled	  using	  the	  standard	  methodologies	  set	  out	  in	  
the	  Regulations	  based	  on	  a	  “snapshot	  date”	  of	  5	  April	  2017,	  
with	  reference	  to	  the	  ACAS	  guidelines,	  where	  appropriate.	  	  
	  
	  

	  
	  
	  
Active	  Life	  is	  required	  to	  publish	  the	  results	  on	  our	  website	  
and	  a	  government	  website	  within	  one	  year	  of	  the	  “snapshot	  
date”.	  

	  

The	  results	  of	  these	  calculations	  enable	  Active	  Life	  to	  assess:	  
Ø  the	  levels	  of	  gender	  equality	  in	  the	  workplace	  
Ø  the	   balance	   of	   male	   and	   female	   employees	   at	   different	  

levels	  

	  

This	   helps	   us	   to	   understand	   any	   underlying	   causes	   for	   a	  
gender	  pay	  gap	  and	  take	  suitable	  steps	  to	  minimise	  it.	  	  
	  
The	   challenge	   for	   all	   organisations	   across	   the	   UK	   is	   to	  
eliminate	  the	  gender	  pay	  gap.	  
	  
The	   following	   information	   is	   based	   on	   349	   employees,	   144	  
male	   and	   205	   female,	   and	   includes	   full	   and	   part-­‐time	   plus	  
regular	  casual	  employees.	  
	  

	  

	  

	  
GENDER	  PAY	  GAP	  	  
This	  is	  the	  difference	  between	  the	  average	  hourly	  rate	  of	  pay	  that	  male	  and	  female	  full-­‐pay	  relevant	  employees	  receive.	  Two	  measures	  
of	  average	  are	  required,	  the	  mean	  and	  the	  median.	  
	  
	  
	  
	  	  	  	  FEMALE	  EMPLOYEES’	  HOURLY	  PAY	  IS:	  

18.5%	  

	  

	  

higher	  (mean)	  	  	  
than	  male	  pay	  

PAY	  QUARTILES	  
This	  data	  shows	  the	  proportion	  of	  our	  male	  and	  female	  employees	  in	  each	  pay	  quartile.	  	  

11.7%	  

higher	  (median)	  
than	  male	  pay	  

	  

Lower	  Quarble	  

Lower	  Middle	  Quarble	  

Upper	  Middle	  Quarble	  

Upper	  Quarble	  

45.5%	  

54.5%	  

39.4%	  

60.6%	  

38.5%	  

61.5%	  

27.3
%	  

72.7
%	  

MALE	  

FEMALE	  

MALE	  

FEMALE	  

MALE	  

FEMALE	  

MALE	  

FEMALE	  

	  

COMMISSION	  PAY	  
This	  section	  reports	  the	  differences	  in	  both	  the	  mean	  and	  median	  commission	  pay	  received	  by	  male	  and	  female	  employees	  and	  the	  
proportion	  of	  all	  our	  employees	  who	  received	  commission	  pay	  in	  the	  reporting	  year.	  	  These	  payments	  are	  made	  to	  a	  small	  group	  of	  
Sales	  Advisors	  who	  earn	  commission	  on	  sales	  of	  memberships.	  
FEMALE	  EMPLOYEES’	  COMMISSION	  PAY	  WAS:	  	  

94%	  

higher	  (mean)	  	  
than	  male	  
commission	  

271%	  

higher	  (median)	  
than	  male	  	  	  
commission	  

	  

	  

At	  first	  glance,	  this	  pay	  gap	  appears	  significant.	  The	  Gender	  
Pay	   Gap	   reporting	   regulations	   do	   not	   allow	   for	   the	   use	   of	  
pro-­‐rating	   in	   the	   production	   of	   this	   statistic	   and	   in	   many	  
cases,	  this	  will	  create	  a	  pay	  gap	  that	  on	  further	  investigation	  
has	  an	  alternative	  explanation.	  	  

The	  reported	  figure	  is	  largely	  due	  to	  the	  fact	  that	  100%	  of	  
female	   employees	   receiving	   commission	   were	   full-­‐time,	  
whereas	  only	  33%	  of	  the	  comparable	  male	  employees	  were	  
working	  on	  a	  full-­‐time	  basis.	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  

THE	  PROPORTION	  OF	  OUR	  EMPLOYEES	  WHO	  RECEIVED	  COMMISSION	  PAY	  WAS:

FEMALE	  employees	  

[VALUE]	  

MALE	  employees	  

[VALUE]	  

97.9%	  

99%	  

Proporbon	  receiving	  
commission	  pay	  

Proporbon	  not	  receiving	  
commission	  pay	  

UNDERSTANDING	  THE	  DATA	  
	  
The	   UK	   average	   gender	   pay	   gap	   is	   currently	   around	   18%	   in	  
favour	   of	   male	   employees.	   Our	   results	   show	   that	   we	   are	  
significantly	   different	   to	   the	   average	   UK	   employer	   with	   a	  
negative	  gender	  pay	  gap	  of	  18.5%.	  	  
	  
As	  a	  Leisure	  provider,	  we	  have	  a	  diverse	  range	  of	  employment,	  
where	  the	  majority	  of	  our	  employees	  are	  part-­‐time	  supporting	  
the	  delivery	  of	  our	  7	  days	  a	  week	  service.	  
	  
Our	  gender	  pay	  gap	  in	  hourly	  pay	  shows	  higher	  average	  pay	  for	  
women,	   which	   is	   attributable	   to	   a	   significant	   dominance	   of	  
female	  
the	  
organisation.	  	  Across	  the	  industry	  these	  roles	  attract	  a	  higher	  
market	  rate.	  

representation	  

roles	   across	  

in	  

Instructing	  

	  

	  

	  
	  
Our	  commission	  payment	  structure	  rewards	  on	  the	  basis	  of	  sales	  
volume	   and	   those	   who	   are	   contracted	   to	   full-­‐time	   hours	   will	  
naturally	  be	  expected	  to	  sell	  more	  memberships	  that	  those	  who	  
are	   not.	   When	   a	   separate	   calculation	   was	   carried	   out	   that	   pro-­‐
rated	   the	   same	   commission	   pay	   to	   take	   account	   for	   hours	  
worked,	  the	  gap	  reduced	  to	  3%	  in	  favour	  of	  female	  employees.	  It	  
should	   also	   be	   noted	   that	   the	   size	   of	   the	   employee	   population	  
receiving	  commission	  at	  Active	  Life	  is	  so	  small	  that	  statistics	  are	  
easily	  distorted	  by	  minor	  differences.	  
	  
Active	  Life	  has	  an	  agile	  and	  flexible	  workforce,	  who	  enjoy	  a	  wide	  
range	  of	  flexible	  working	  options,	  regardless	  of	  gender,	  allowing	  
for	  an	  effective	  work/life	  balance.	  	  
	  

	  
Our	   quartile	   distribution	   further	   reflects	   this	   strong	   female	  
representation	   with	  
the	   upper	   earning	   quartile	   being	  
comprised	   of	   Managers,	   Senior	   Managers,	   Fitness	   Class	  
Instructors	  and	  Swimming	  Teachers.	  
	  
The	  large	  commission	  pay	  gap	  reported	  is	  not	  representative	  of	  
a	   gender	   bias.	   Commission	   payments	   are	   made	   to	   a	   small	  
group	  of	  Sales	  Advisors,	  with	  the	  100%	  of	  the	  women,	  but	  only	  
33%	  of	  the	  men	  within	  this	  group	  working	  full-­‐time.	  
	  
	  	  

The	   results	   do	   not	   show	   urgent	   requirement	   for	   action,	  
nevertheless	   we	   will	   seek	   to	   attract	   and	   encourage	   the	  
recruitment	   of	   males	   to	   female	   dominated	   Instructing	   roles	   in	  
order	  to	  realign	  the	  gender	  balance.	  
	  
Active	   Life	   is	   committed	   to	   monitoring	   the	   Gender	   Pay	   Gap	  
annually.	  
	  
	  

	  I	  hereby	  confirm	  the	  accuracy	  of	  the	  information	  provided	  in	  this	  report.	  	  

	  
Neil	  West,	  Chief	  Executive	  

