Gender Pay Report 2017

HW Fisher has always been committed to equality in the workplace. We take pride in ensuring 
men and women of the same grade are treated equally. While we are pleased to confirm that 
we have approximately equal representation of men and women within the firm, we recognise 
there is more to be done to equalise the representation at each of the pay quartiles, especially 
at the more senior levels.

We continue to address gaps and to make sure our policies and practices are fair. 

We acknowledge that addressing gaps is a long-term goal and may take some time to achieve, especially at the more 
senior level.  The firm is currently entering a period of change and it is envisaged that this will facilitate certain cultural 
shifts, incorporating more diverse management teams. The gender pay gap reporting will help maintain our focus on the 
issues in hand.

Julian Challis 
HR Partner

Statutory disclosures
HW Fisher has one legal entity with at least 250 employees, 
HW Fisher Limited. Under the new regulations we are 
required to report our gender pay gap for this entity.

The figures shown have been calculated using the standard 
methodologies used in the Regulations.

The information below shows the statutory disclosure 
for HW Fisher Limited at the snapshot date of April 2017. 
It is based on the hourly rates of pay as of that date and 
bonuses paid in the year to April 2017.

Gender pay gap for HW Fisher Limited 

Proportion receiving a bonus 

Gender pay gap

Mean Median
19.6%

23.5%

Gender bonus pay gap

46.3%

66.7%

30.6%
30.6%

25%
25%

Mean %   This is the global difference between the average of men and women’s pay
Median %   This is the global difference between the midpoints in the ranges of men and women’s pay

Gender Pay Report 2017

Pay Quartiles by gender 

31.2%  68.8%

46.1%  53.9%

64.9%  35.1%

52.6%  47.4%

Upper
Upper

Total workforce

Upper 
Upper Middle
Middle

Lower 
Lower Middle
Middle

Lower
Lower

51.3%
51.3%

48.7%
48.7%

Understanding the gap
Our analysis of our gender pay gap shows that it does not 
arise from any pay differential between men and women at 
the same level, but rather from the gender balance within 
the firm e.g. that fewer women hold senior positions 
within the firm than men.

Whilst women made up 48.7% of our overall workforce in 
April 2017, only 31.2 % of our senior staff were female. 

When we adjust for this imbalance our pay gap falls to 5.5%. 

Similarly, the higher proportion of men in senior roles is 
reflected in the gender bonus gap. Adjusting for this factor 
reduces the gap to 8%.

We are confident that our gender pay gap does not stem 
from paying men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work, but reflects the roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation.

Under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 we are now required to report our gender pay gap information.

Gender pay does not have the same meaning as equal pay which is based on the legal right for men and women to receive equal pay for the same or 
broadly similar work. The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average earnings of men and women in the same organisation, over a period of 
time, irrespective of their seniority, the work they perform or the roles that they fulfil.

