Cumbria County Council

Gender 
pay gap

Published March 2018

Serving the people of Cumbria

cumbria.gov.uk

Cumbria County Council

Introduction

The Government now requires all employers, both public and private sector, with 250  
or more employees to publish their gender pay gap information. The Government’s 
ambition is to ‘eliminate the gender pay gap within a generation’. Public sector  
employers are required to publish by 30 March 2018, and annually thereafter using  
a snapshot of the previous March data. 
The regulations require the Council to publish six different calculations which show 
the difference in average earnings (mean and median) between the females and 
males, expressed as a percentage of male earnings.
This Report details the Council’s Gender Pay Gap for the snapshot date of 31 March 2017.

A Gender Pay Gap and Equal Pay are often confused and are not the same. 
Issues of equal pay arise where men and women are paid differently for doing  
the same work or work of equal value. 
The gender pay gap shows the differences in average pay between men and 
women and reflects the sort of jobs undertaken across the whole council. 

Therefore, some of the causes of the pay gap are often outside the control of any 
one employer. Nationally there is a gender pay gap of around 18%. 
The data shows that the Council does have a pay gap but it is lower than the  
national (mean) average. 
The Council prides itself and works hard to ensure that it is fully inclusive and 
provides a range of flexible working and development options to promote diversity, 
inclusivity and equality of opportunity. 
The Council will not be complacent and will continue to take positive action to 
achieve these aims.

Key messages of this report
 Cumbria County Council is committed to workforce equality and diversity.
 At March 2017 the figures taken showed that there is a gender pay gap at the 
County Council, but the gap is significantly smaller than the national average. 
 Of the County Council’s top five salaries, three roles are held by females, one 
of which is the Chief Executive.
 The Council will continue to work hard to ensure it supports and encourages 
equality in the workplace so that all staff regardless of gender make the most 
of their potential.

2

Serving the people of Cumbria

Gender pay gap

The six gender pay gap figures

The calculations are more complex than may at first be apparent because the  
regulations are specific about what pay data should and should not be included and 
which employees should be counted. 
The majority of the Council’s workforce are employed under the same terms and 
conditions and pay and grading structure. However, there are various pay elements 
within this framework which reflect the different types of jobs undertaken and the  
different ways of working, such as sessional payments for Night and Sunday working. 
There are some smaller groups of employees who are employed under different 
terms such as firefighters and teachers. 
The total headcount for employees in the Council, during this snapshot period at 
March 2017, (excluding school based employees), is just over 6,000. 71% of the 
workforce are female and 29% are male. 

Workforce breakdown

71

%
Female

29

%
Male

The calculations required for the national data return involve determining an hourly 
rate for all employees (on full pay) on the snapshot date using ‘ordinary pay’. This 
includes basic pay, sessional payments and other relevant allowances but it does not 
include things like overtime or redundancy payments. 
The Gender Pay Gap figures reported are shown as the female to male pay. 

 A positive percentage figure reveals that typically or overall, female employees 
have lower pay than male employees. 
 A negative percentage figure reveals typically or overall, male employees have 
lower pay than female employees: 

Pay

Mean (Average) 
Gender Pay Gap 
in hourly pay is: 

13.5%

(ie female pay across the whole of 

the council is less than men.)

A ‘Mean’ average 
involves adding up 
all the relevant pay 
and dividing the  

result by the number 

of jobs people 

occupy.

The Council’s  
Gender Pay Gap 

compares 

favourably with the 
UK Public Sector 
national average  

of 17.7%.

3

cumbria.gov.uk

Cumbria County Council

Pay

Median (Mid-Point) 
Gender Pay Gap in 

hourly pay is: 

25.12%

A median average 
involves listing all 

the jobs in numerical 
order of pay and the 
median average is the 

middle number.

The Council’s  
Gender Pay Gap 
compares less 

favourably with the 
UK Public Sector 
median of 19.4%.

(Female pay across the whole 
workforce is less than men.)

‘Bonus’

The Council does not have ‘bonus’ schemes and does not pay ‘bonuses’ on top 
of basic pay. However, for the purpose of the Gender Pay figures the definition of 
a ‘bonus’ payment does include other payments such as Continuous Professional 
Development (CPD) payments that firefighters receive, market supplements paid 
for hard to fill jobs such as Social Workers, and honorarium payments. The figures 
outlined below therefore reflect these payments awarded.

Mean Bonus 

Gender Pay Gap is:

 -260.04%

In this case the Mean average involves adding up  
the bonus pay of those employees who received  
bonus and dividing by the total number of people 

who received bonus.

Average ‘bonus’ paid to females across the whole workforce is higher than men.  

Median Bonus 
Gender Pay Gap is:

-126.39%

A median average involves listing all the numbers  
in numerical order of pay and the median average  

is the middle number.

Average ‘bonus’ paid to females across the whole workforce is higher than men.

Proportion of males 

receiving a bonus 

payment is: 

11.75%

eg Firefighters receive a Continuous 
Professional Development Payment 
so have greater male employees than 

females.

The reason the bonus 
gap looks so large is that 

whilst more males  
receive ‘bonus’ the 

amount they receive is 
much smaller than the 
females who have also 
received payments  
classified as ‘bonus’.

Proportion of females 

receiving a bonus 

payment is: 

0.79%

(Small numbers of staff in roles 
awarded honoraria for example.)

4

Serving the people of Cumbria

Gender pay gap

Proportion of males and females
in each pay quartile across the
Council workforce

12.52

%

24.41

%

44.92

%

33.25

%

71% of 
council 
workforce  
are female

87.48

%
Lower
Quartile

75.59

%

Lower Mid
Quartile

55.08

%

Upper Mid
Quartile

Female 

   Male 

                   

66.75

%
Upper
Quartile

March 2017 data

100

 

%
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

90

80

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

5

cumbria.gov.uk

Cumbria County Council

Why is there a Pay Gap?

The Gender Pay Gap is significantly affected by the make-up and profile of the 
workforce. The Council’s pay gap is a result of not having proportionately as many 
higher paid females as males at the snapshot date of March 2017. A pay gap will 
apply to any organisation that has a higher proportion of men in more senior roles, 
so the Council is not unique. 
The causes of the gender pay gap are a complex mix of work, society and family 
factors. For example, men and women traditionally work in different occupational 
groups and nationally, females are under represented in some of the higher paid 
jobs such as science and technology and in roles such as Chief Executives. 
The Government is also taking action to help reduce the pay gap by supporting 
schools and further education establishments to encourage more females to take up 
careers in subjects of Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths. 
 

The Council’s record of
supporting women in the
workplace

The Council is proud and has a good record of supporting females at the highest 
level. The County Council’s current Chief Executive is female and the last two  
previous Chief Executives of the Council have also been female. In the top 5 most 
senior positions in the Council, three are female and two are male. 
Statistics also show that over the last 5 years, the proportion of women in the Council  
who are paid over £50,000 has increased and is now much more reflective of the 
gender split of the whole workforce.

The Council’s commitment

As an employer, the Council focuses on equality, communication and people- 
friendly policies. 
The Council appreciates, rewards and values each employee’s contribution.
The Council is proud to be a modern and flexible employer, focusing on improving 
working environments and practices to ensure high quality service delivery and 
value for money. This gives employees increasing work opportunities and flexibility, 
from home working to travelling around an area, or working with partners in other  
locations. Women are often attracted to roles in the Council because of these  
flexible working and family friendly policies.    
The Council’s commitment to equality is more than just an obligation. In making jobs  
and opportunities available to everyone, it is making the best choices from the 
broadest possible selection of people. There is an ongoing commitment to take a 
‘one team’ approach so that by working together the council can identify and  
implement future opportunities to overcome any barriers that females and other 
protected groups face in the workplace.

6

Serving the people of Cumbria

Gender pay gap

The County Council already provides:

Pay & Grading

Fair Pay

Family Friendly  
policies, practices 
and procedures

Flexible Working 
options 

Learning and  
Development  
opportunities

Apprenticeships

A clear policy for robust pay and grading is in place to 
ensure that the council pays men and women the same to 
do the same jobs. 
The Living Wage Foundation UK Living Wage for those  
who would otherwise be paid below this rate. This is higher  
than the Government’s national living wage.
Benefits are in place above the statutory levels for  
maternity, adoption, parental and paternity leave and 
other support is available such as being able to purchase 
additional leave, taking a career break or using child care 
vouchers to help with the cost of child care. 
A range of flexible working options are available where 
possible such as part time / term time working, flexi time, 
compressed hours, annualised hours and job sharing.
Learning, development and career progression  
opportunities include a management development  
programme, apprenticeships and academy schemes and 
a variety of learning and development routes including 
traditional courses, distance learning, on the job learning, 
e-learning and career grade schemes to enable access to 
learning and development for all.
A wide range of Apprenticeships are available for new and  
existing staff.

The Council has moved on from traditional adverts and developed recruitment 
programmes and campaigns designed to reach and support a much wider range 
of candidates. It has already been successful in taking steps to challenge gender 
norms and break down some of the gender stereotypes using positive action in our 
recruitment campaigns for example by employing more women as firefighters.
The Council will also continue to look at other targeted positive recruitment actions 
as part of its Equality Plan. 
The Council will continue to explore more innovative solutions to support women 
and other protected groups to gain employment with the Council and have supported  
career development. 
For example, the Council has recently supported some women returning from career  
breaks to gain up-to-date skills and knowledge and evidenced based practice in 
order to re-register for a licence to practice in social work.  
The Council will also continue to regularly monitor, review and develop practices 
which provide equality of opportunity for all and ensure the Council uses the best 
talent and skills available for a diverse and inclusive workforce to the benefit of the 
communities it serves, its employees and its partners, regardless of gender.
The Council’s Equality Pages are available at cumbria.gov.uk/equalities

Katherine Fairclough, Chief Executive
28 March 2018

7

cumbria.gov.uk

