 

 

Magnox Limited 

Gender Pay Gap Report 
 
14 March 2018 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

Magnox Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
PAGE 1 OF 3 

 

 

1.  Gender Pay Gap 

 
 

Magnox Ltd is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

  The mean gender pay gap for Magnox Ltd is 12.7%. 

  The median gender pay gap for Magnox Ltd is 13.7%. 

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly pay for women compared to the average hourly pay 
for men expressed as a percentage of men’s average pay.  

  The mean gender bonus gap for Magnox Ltd is 6.7%. 
  The median gender bonus gap for Magnox Ltd is 1.4%. 

The gender bonus gap is the difference between the average bonus paid to women compared to the average bonus 
paid to men expresses as a percentage of the men average bonus.  

  The proportion of male employees in Magnox Ltd receiving a bonus is 95.2% and the proportion of female 

employees receiving a bonus is 99.8%. 

 

2.  Pay Quartiles by Gender 

 

Band 

Males 

Females 

Description 

A - Lower quartile  65.9% 

34.1% 

B – Lower middle 
quartile 

C – Upper middle 
quartile 

D – Upper 
quartile 

75.1% 

24.9% 

82.6% 

17.5% 

85% 

15% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the upper quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 
 

Magnox Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
PAGE 2 OF 3 

 

3. What are the underlying causes of Magnox Ltd's gender pay gap? 

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly pay of women compared to men, expressed as a 
percentage of men’s average pay. It does not take into account the role or level in the organisation of men and women. 
The figures show the mean average hourly pay of women at Magnox Ltd is 12.7% lower than the mean average hourly 
pay for men. The difference in the average gender pay is the result of proportionately more men being in senior and 
higher paid roles at Magnox Ltd than women. This is demonstrated in the table above showing the gender distribution 
across the four pay quartiles. There are a greater proportion of women employed in roles that fall in the lower quartiles 
than men.  

Women currently make up 24% of the employees at Magnox Ltd. The lower proportion of women in the organisation is 
consistent with the gender demographics in the nuclear sector. This is a consequence of it being historically difficult to 
recruit women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines.  
4. How does Magnox Ltd’s gender pay gap compare with the UK 
average? 

The mean gender pay gap for the UK is 17.4% and the median is 18.4% lower for women than men (according to the 
October 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures). At 12.7% and 
13.7% Magnox Ltd's mean and median gender pay gap compares favourably with the UK mean and median gender pay 
gap figures. 
5. What is Magnox Ltd doing to address its gender pay gap? 

Magnox Ltd is committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) within the organisation and has a number 
of actions in place. 

Magnox Ltd has set up an EDI steering group, comprised of a number of directors and senior managers, to define the 
EDI strategy and sponsor initiatives to promote and embed EDI across the organisation. Progress to date has included a 
communication campaign to raise awareness of and the profile of the topic, an all staff EDI survey, to enable better 
understanding of the views of the workforce and opportunities for improvement, and the provision of training for all 
staff on respect and inclusion and unconscious bias.  

Magnox Ltd has launched a Women’s Network with the aim of increasing gender diversity and equality across the 
organisation.  

Magnox Ltd is supporting the development of female talent in the organisation through the talent management 
programme and the graduate scheme: 

- 
- 

36% of participants of the 2017 talent programme are female  
29% of STEM graduates recruited in the last 2 years are female   

In addition, a review of all policies and procedures is underway to identify and address any inappropriate gender or 
other demographic bias. 

These initiatives are likely to contribute to the erosion of the gender pay gap, but this will take time. In the meantime, 
Magnox Ltd is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the 
progress that it is making. 

I, Tony Moore, Managing Director, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

Signed                    

                                                               Date        14/03/2018 

 
 

Magnox Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
PAGE 3 OF 3 

