    Skip to main content                          Text size Normal Large X Large       Header menu   Home  Help  Listen to this page  FAQs  Contact Us         01946 598300 info@copeland.gov.uk                    Main menu Services Business Community My property Enjoy Copeland Your council      Services Benefits Bereavement services Building Control Council tax Environmental health Housing Licensing Planning Waste and recycling Quick links Business Starting a business Advice if you are already in business Townscape Heritage Initiative Land and property for sale / rent Doing business with the council Community Energy and nuclear Your locality Keeping your community safe Copeland Disability Forum Howgill Family Centre North Lakes Foodbank My property Lookup your councillor, etc. using your postcode or street My bin collections Local amenities and locations Terms and conditions of use Enjoy Copeland Events Visiting Information for visitors Accommodation Things to see and do Your council Council constitution Our offices Policies and strategies Finance Data transparency List of committees Copeland councillors and MEP's Elections and election results Consultations       Search our website    Enter your keywords              Manage your council tax online Don't lose you right to vote                     Welcome               Click here to find out more about our new kerbside recycling service. We are encouraging residents to take pride in our borough and make Copeland a better place to live, work and visit. F or further details of the campaign click here . The Local Government Boundary Commission has launched a final round of consultation into its electoral review of Copeland Borough Council. To view its proposed warding arrangements and to respond to the consultation, click here . There are currently no scheduled elections taking place in Copeland in 2018. Click  here  to see the monthly electoral registration dates for anyone wishing to apply to be added to the Electoral Register. See our newly adopted Conservation Design Guide here . We have published our Gender Pay Gap report for 2017-18. View it here . If you live in Millom or Haverigg and your property was affected by flooding in September/October 2017 click here more information on our council tax relief scheme for flood affected properties. We have produced an Empty Homes Guide for county, borough and parish councillors. Read it here . Want to be the first to hear the latest Copeland Council news? Get our eCopeland Matters magazine straight to your inbox here .                   Media Media Info & Press Releases   Spring spruce-up for Egremont play park AN EGREMONT play park has been given a new lease of life by Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Fly-tipper hit with fine Copeland Borough Council has fined a householder after waste was...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   £60,000 awarded to business ALMOST £60,000 has been awarded to businesses in the borough to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor condemns litter louts COPELAND’S Mayor has condemned “litter louts” that are blighting the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Townscape boost for historic area of Whitehaven More than £120,000 of investment is being ploughed into historic shop...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New guide to protect Copeland’s rich heritage A NEW guide has been produced which will enhance and maintain...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   A clean sweep for Calderwood residents RESIDENTS of an Egremont hostel are now trained to prepare foods to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Easter opening hours and waste collections COPELAND Borough Council offices (including Market Hall) will be...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Dog-lover Rob boosts his business pedigree A DOG-LOVER has boosted his business pedigree with the completion of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Locals build heritage skills Residents and building professionals learned how to conserve heritage...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council to offer free recycling lids COPELAND Council has listened to the views of its residents, and is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Employers urged to sign up EMPLOYERS can boost their chances of filling vacancies by signing up...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Beacon Easter activities The Beacon Museum in Whitehaven has a host of arty activities on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Green waste collections restart AS SPRING approaches, Copeland Council is about to restart its garden...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Conference line-up announced A HIGH-CALIBRE line-up of speakers has been announced for the second...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Egremont recycling cage set ablaze ARSONISTS set fire to a Copeland Council recycling cage in Egremont...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland recyclers do their bit Copeland Council is saying a big thank you to residents who made a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland's Charlotte gains top planning accolade A COPELAND officer has attained the ultimate qualification in their...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council agrees its budget COPELAND Borough Council has unanimously agreed its budget for 2018/...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New recycling scheme moves nearer COPELAND'S brand new recycling service moves a step nearer next week...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Community gathers for Egremont clean-up EGREMONT has benefited from a successful community clean-up event....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Cash boost to enhance employment prospects A SIX-FIGURE cash boost will enhance the employment prospects of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Whitehaven property given new lease of life A WHITEHAVEN town centre property has received a new lease of life...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor's budget proposals buck trends COPELAND Council’s Elected Mayor is bucking the national trend in his...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Competition inspires young recyclers A CREATIVE competition to inspire the next generation of recyclers...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Transformational scheme extended A TRANSFORMATIONAL town centre scheme, set to revitalise the borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Tree vandalised in Whitehaven A TREE has been vandalised only two days after it was planted in...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Successful community project looking to expand A SUCCESSFUL community project is hoping to expand its reach...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Furniture dumped on a rural road in Copeland FURNITURE has been dumped on a rural road in Copeland.
A sofa, chair...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Recycling scheme brings new vacancies COPELAND Council is to take on several new staff - including teams to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Over 500 residents respond to council campaign OVER 500 residents responded to a survey as part of Copeland Council’...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Mayor sets out budget plans COPELAND’S Mayor is proposing to limit the council tax increase for...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Residents urged to sign up to money-saving scheme COPELAND Council is marking Big Energy Saving Week by urging people...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Recycling event heads to Millom Residents in the south of Copeland will get a chance to find out more...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council helps to address community housing need INDIVIDUALS and groups are being offered expert help to address...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor to hold budget consultation events COPELAND Mayor Mike Starkie is inviting the borough's business...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council launches Pride of Place scheme COPELAND Council are launching a scheme to encourage residents and...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Free festive parking in Copeland CHRISTMAS shoppers in Copeland can enjoy free parking this festive...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland residents urged to recycle COPELAND residents are being encouraged to do their bit for the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council commits to paying Voluntary Living Wage COPELAND Council has reaffirmed its commitment to pay its staff the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council offers festive recycling tips Copeland residents are being urged to make recycling a part of the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Furniture dumped in Copeland FURNITURE has been dumped on a rural road in Copeland.
 A sofa and a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Pupils enjoy recycling lesson SCHOOLCHILDREN and residents gathered to get a closer look at...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council Christmas arrangements COPELAND Borough Council offices (including Market Hall) will be...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Hub celebrates first anniversary A MULTI-AGENCY hub set up to tackle anti-social behaviour in Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Unemployed residents benefit from work academy FOUR Copeland residents have secured jobs in the care industry thanks...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council launches energy scheme A FREE scheme to help residents save money on their energy bills is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Recycling Roadshows head to town NEXT week residents will get a first look at Copeland Council's new...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Set up your stall at our festive markets A RANGE of festivities is on offer at Whitehaven Market this...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council supports victims of domestic violence VICTIMS of domestic abuse and sexual exploitation can now access...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council's new service takes shape COPELAND residents will be given three plastic boxes and one bag when...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Clean Copeland Seas ALL of Copeland's bathing waters have been declared clean by the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Recycling rejected after contamination A VEHICLE-LOAD of recycling had to be scrapped after it was...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Community big build project completed A three-day big build at Seathwaite Community Centre in Mirehouse,...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council set to launch new recycling service COPELAND’S residents will soon benefit from a new doorstep recycling...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New councillor elected to Copeland Council TOM Higgins has been elected to represent the Egremont South ward on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Budget consultation launched COPELAND Council has launched a consultation into next year’s budget...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Stricter penalties for fly-tippers COPELAND Council has introduced stricter measures to combat fly-...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Pubs raise a glass to rates discount PUBS in Copeland can raise a glass to a £1,000 discount on their...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Gary McKee awarded Freedom of Copeland MARATHON man Gary McKee has been awarded the Freedom of the Borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland developments praised THE high quality of new developments in Copeland has been praised by...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Community-led housing - find out more PLACES are still available at a launch event for a community-led...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland invests in future with apprentices COPELAND Council is investing in its workforce by welcoming six new...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   First 10 businesses benefit from Mayor’s Scheme TEN town centre businesses have reaped the rewards of Copeland Mayor...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Sarah Hodgson chops her locks for charity RECENT bride Sarah Hodgson has chopped off her long locks for charity...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor to hold public meeting in Seascale COPELAND Mayor Mike Starkie has announced a public meeting in...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Your chance to help shape borough's future COPELAND residents have the chance to help shape the future of the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Last Chance to Switch THERE are just a few days left to become part of the Copeland Big...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Roaring success for Whitehaven Market A BIRTHDAY BONANZA saw people from all corners of the county visit...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council initiative supports communities COMMUNITIES in Copeland are being supported to address their own...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Statement on Councillor Michael Guest Michael Guest, a Copeland Borough Councillor and Whitehaven Town...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Whitehaven Market’s Big Birthday Bash A special ‘Big Birthday Bash’ themed market will take place this...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Sir Tony Robinson celebrates launch event TELEVISION legend Sir Tony Robinson brought history to life as The...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor cuts ribbon at community transport scheme COPELAND Mayor Mike Starkie has cut the ribbon to mark the delivery...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council's former Chairman makes donation A SIZEABLE donation has been made to a local charity following a year...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Windy walks around Whitehaven OVER 50 people attended a series of free guided walks around the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Winter is coming As summer ends and the temperature drops, Copeland Council is helping...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Mayor announces new executive line-up Statement on behalf of Copeland Mayor, Mike Starkie:
Following the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Up to £200 available to set up market stalls BUDDING young entrepreneurs are being invited to apply for a chance...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Last chance to comment on anti-social behaviour TIME is running out for people to tell Copeland Council their views...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New community transport scheme to be launched COPELAND Mayor Mike Starkie will be cutting the ribbon next week to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Less than one week left to apply THERE is less than one week left to apply for one of the six modern...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor to launch series of public meetings A SERIES of public meetings organised by Copeland Mayor Mike Starkie...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Local teen inspired by Copeland Mayor LOCAL teenager Ellie McMinn has secured her dream role as an...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor to request council size reduction MAYOR Mike Starkie will formally request that the number of Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council initiative supports communities COMMUNITIES in Copeland are being supported to address their own...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council offers domestic violence support COPELAND Council is helping to support those affected by domestic...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Hair chop for charity RECENT Bride Sarah Hodgson will be chopping off her long locks for...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor to hold series of public meeting COPELAND Mayor Mike Starkie has announced a series of public meetings...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Over 100 businesses interested in scheme OVER 100 businesses have expressed their interest in a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Event celebrates learners' achievements THE achievements of a group of dedicated learners have been...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Exciting apprenticeship opportunities EXCITING new career opportunities are on offer at Copeland Borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Last chance to have your say Members of the public have until Friday (August 18) to have their say...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Vandals force play park closure VANDALS have forced the partial closure of a Whitehaven play park....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Young people to challenge prejudice A CREATIVE competition is being held to encourage young people to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Anti-social behaviour consultation launched COPELAND Council is asking residents and visitors for their views on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   'Don't feed the seagulls' plea PLEASE don’t feed the seagulls - that’s the plea being made by...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland to propose drop in councillor numbers COPELAND Council is set to request its councillor numbers to be...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council launches The Big Switch A FREE scheme to help residents save money on their energy bills has...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Clean bill of health for Copeland eateries COPELAND’S food establishments have reported a clean bill of health...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New houses earmarked for Whitehaven COPELAND Council has given outline planning permission for 110 homes...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Muncaster passes zoo inspection MUNCASTER Castle has once again passed its official Zoo Licencing...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Free sessions at the Beacon Portal A STATE-OF-THE-ART conference centre is offering free introductory...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Don't lose your vote RESIDENTS will soon be asked to help Copeland Council update its...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Whitehaven pub first to receive Council grant A WHITEHAVEN town centre pub has become the first successful...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Quality badge for The Beacon Museum A PRESTIGIOUS qualification has been awarded to The Beacon Museum for...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Launch event for £1 million scheme A TRANSFORMATIONAL £1 million scheme has been launched to revitalise...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Last chance to comment on conservation area plans TIME is running out for residents to comment on a number of Copeland'...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Work to start to demolish dilapidated buildings WORK is planned to start next week to demolish two dilapidated...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council supports safeguarding in Copeland COPELAND Borough Council staff are being trained to help ensure the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council to report financial success COPELAND Council is set to report a £170,000 underspend for the last...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Fly-tippers strike in Cleator Moor A LARGE number of household items have been found dumped in Cleator...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Homelessness prevention statistics COPELAND Council’s housing team prevented 218 households from...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Ceremony to mark Campus Whitehaven construction An official ceremony to mark the start of construction of the new...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council attends national nuclear event REPRESENTATIVES of Copeland Council have joined other local...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Warning letters sent by Council's Enforcement team ELEVEN warning letters have been sent by Copeland Council’s...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Clean-up blitz for Whitehaven town centre WHITEHAVEN town centre is benefiting from a clean-up blitz.
Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Millom Recreation Centre Revamp AMBITIOUS plans for a leisure centre revamp have taken a major step...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Market stalls during Taste Cumbria Festival TIME is running out for traders to grab themselves a stall during...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council staff showcase career opportunities PUPILS have received an insight into the range of opportunities...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor launches ground-breaking £1 million scheme A REVOLUTIONARY £1 million scheme has been launched to transform...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Community clean-up for Mirehouse estate OVER 30 bags of rubbish were collected during a community clean-up of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Two Whitehaven town centre properties renovated TWO Whitehaven town centre properties have received a major...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Draft Conservation Area Design Guide A NEW guide has been produced in order to help enhance and maintain...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Residents urged to report empty homes COPELAND residents are being asked to identify empty homes in their...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Market stalls on offer during Summer Festival COPELAND council is offering six lucky traders the chance to hire a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council to capitalise on World Heritage status COPELAND Borough Council has pledged to make the most of the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Food and hygiene standards scheme launched A UNIQUE scheme has been launched by Copeland Council to improve the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Distington bypass clean up Over 120 bags of rubbish were cleared from a well-used dual...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New councillor elected - Millom Newtown Ward A NEW councillor has been elected to represent the Newtown ward on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Careers in Copeland A PLETHORA of job vacancies are currently up for grabs at Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   What makes conservation areas special? COPELAND Council is assessing some of its conservation areas in...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Top marks for Millom eateries MILLOM eateries are among the most hygienic in Copeland, current...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Waste teams issue vehicles plea COPELAND residents are being asked to keep their roads clear of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Clean up campaign for Copeland's Beaches COPELAND’S beaches will benefit from a summer-long clean-up scheme....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Science Extravaganza at The Beacon Museum A SCIENTIFIC extravaganza was held at The Beacon Museum today (...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Big Switch could boost economy COPELAND residents are being offered an average saving of £148...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor opens memorial garden A VILLAGE'S new memorial beach garden has marked its official opening...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Busy year for council's enforcement team ENFORCEMENT officers at Copeland Council dealt with 900 call-outs...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council highlights penalties for building offences COPELAND Council has highlighted to builders that they can face a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council staff to the rescue COPELAND Council's waste staff have been extra-busy being good...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Town trail for budding mini historians BRINGING Whitehaven’s rich history to life were a group of local...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Fly-tippers blight rural road FLY-TIPPERS have dumped a large amount of cables and wiring on a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Lottery boss visits Whitehaven THE BEACON Museum was delighted to welcome Nathan Lee, Head of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   All change for disabled swimmers A BRAND new disabled changing area was opened to the public today at...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Local dinner lady sets out her stall BUDDING baker and ex dinner lady Mandy Robinson has embarked on a new...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   The Beacon shortlisted for prestigious award THE Beacon museum has been shortlisted for a prestigious tourism...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council elects new chairman COPELAND Council has appointed Alistair Norwood as its new chairman...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Former mayor Ossy Coyles memory will be honoured A RESPECTED and loved former mayor of Copeland will be honoured by...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Gary McKee to be awarded Freedom of Copeland MARATHON man Gary McKee is to be awarded the Freedom of the Borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland tackles obesity COPELAND Council has pledged to play its part in tackling obesity....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Disabled facilities transformed in Copeland A state-of-the-art disabled changing area will be unveiled next week...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Free market stalls for new traders AN EXCITING opportunity has arisen for budding stallholders to have a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor issues statement on Moorside power station Copeland's mayor Mike Starkie has issued the following statement on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Oswald Coyles memory could be honoured A RESPECTED former mayor of Copeland could be honoured by the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   £25,000 awarded to employment support project A FIVE-FIGURE cash boost will enhance the employment prospects of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Creating Careers in Cumbria Programme ELEVEN local unemployed residents have celebrated their graduation...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Date for Copeland Council's Annual General Meeting RESIDENTS are invited to attend Copeland Borough Council's Annual...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New woman at the helm of Whitehaven Market THE new woman at the helm of Whitehaven Market is relishing the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Scheme launched to help save residents money A FREE scheme to help residents save money on their energy bills has...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Success for planning team THE planning team at Copeland Council is celebrating a remarkable...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council reaffirms green commitment COPELAND Council has reaffirmed its commitment to a cleaner, greener...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Hosts National Nuclear Conference Copeland Borough Council is proud to announce it will be hosting this...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Apprentice boost for local firms A GROWING Copeland business has been able to take on two apprentices...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Town centre health check COPELAND Council is undertaking a large scale study to gauge the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Farewell to Festive Fats Copeland Council is urging people to help protect our seawaters...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council arrangements for festive season Copeland Council is putting out some useful information about its...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland's Big Switch WITH PICCOPELAND Council is launching a scheme to help residents save...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Better chances for Copeland children Tuesday November 22 2016. For immediate release
 
PARTNERS have come...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Helping hand for Copeland job seekers Tuesday November 22 2016. For immediate release
UNEMPLOYED Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland's beaches make the grade COPELAND'S four bathing beaches - managed by Copeland Borough Council...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Pupils take a seat for history lesson Wednesday October 19 2016. For immediate releaseSCHOOLCHILDREN are to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   More skills for Copeland Skills and learning organisations in West Cumbria will soon have more...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Egremont ward changes - give your view COPELAND Council is asking Egremont people for their views on a...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Parks team among the best COPELAND Council's parks team has reached the finals of a prestigious...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Finance Update 29 June 2016 Finance Update 29 June 2016
We would like to keep you updated on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland focuses on work and skills COPELAND Council is spearheading a series of projects aimed at...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor calls public meetings after NuGen letters Following concerns from residents, Copeland Mayor Mike Starkie has...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   NuGen statement on community letters, In response to concerns raised by members of the community, NuGen...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New Market Hall office celebrated in sculpture Copeland Council will officially open its new offices in Whitehaven...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland waste service tops table Copeland Council has scored top marks for its great value waste...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor joins police for fact finding night patrol Mayor of Copeland, Mike Starkie delivered on a promise to take to the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Cemeteries prepare for spring Cemeteries in Copeland are due for their regular maintenance to...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Parks team excellence Copeland Council has been ranked top in the UK for the value-for-...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Cardboard recycling banks re-open Copeland Council now has its card recycling banks back in action.
The...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   2015 Household Flood Payment Scheme (Cumbria) Please be advised that the information contained on this page could...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland's Christmas arrangements Copeland Council is putting out useful festive information to make...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Have your say on Copeland's budget Copeland Borough Council is calling on people to offer their views on...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Flytippers force card recycling suspension Cardboard collection at all of Copeland’s recycling sites has been...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Open for Business goes global A unique video of Copeland, which welcomed more than 300...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New alarm regulations on agenda for Landlords' New regulations affecting landlords were discussed at a forum run by...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland starts new boundary review Copeland councillors agreed to move forward with a review of the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor’s regalia open to the people of Copeland Former civic mayors of Copeland joined the current chairman of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Hensingham Community Clean Up Hensingham pulls together for clear-up
 
Wednesday September 9 2015....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Cumbria Deal Statement “Today the leaders of the Cumbrian public sector, supported by the...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Poster urges public to help ease seagull nuisance The public are being asked to help reduce the nuisance being...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor meets traders at successful farmer's market Traders at a popular West Cumbrian farmers’ market have been sharing...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayor launches Community Forum The Mayor of Copeland, Mike Starkie hosted the inaugural meeting of...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Putting the pride back into Copeland Mayor of Copeland, Mike Starkie is set to relaunch the Pride in...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Interpreting Copeland's Coasts Cycle Event Cycle Relay to Launch Copeland’s New Interpretation Boards 
 
Release...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Grants Promote Independence Grants promote independence
Monday August 17 2015.  For immediate...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Community Fund is looking to recruit The Copeland Community Fund is looking to recruit up to 3 Independent...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Colourful choice at Market Hall Copeland Council is seeking the public’s help in deciding the colour...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Fun day helping out Haig Fun free day helping out at Haig
 
Tuesday July 11 2015. For...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Business Broadband Vouchers Copeland businesses with a CA postcode looking to update to a faster...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Second Annual Canvas Press Release Keep your right to vote
Monday August 3 2015.  For immediate release...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   NuGen project stage one consultation response Response to NuGen Moorside project stage one consultation now...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Fair waste collections for holiday lets Copeland Council is ensuring a fair and equal system for all council...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council meetings hit the road The Executive committee meeting, on Tuesday August 4 at Millom...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Youngsters gear up to learn Tuesday July 21 2015
 
Young cyclists from Whitehaven Harbour Youth...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Celebrating seasonal food Wednesday July 22 2015.  For immediate release
 
Two free events...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Action against misuse of recycling service Following continued misuse Copeland Council has suspended garden...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Discover the Mysteries of Victorian Whitehaven Go back in time with the team at the Beacon Museum this weekend (...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Voters urged to update details Tuesday July 7 2015.  For immediate release
Copeland Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New telephone number for Copeland Council Copeland Borough Council is introducing a new, one-stop-shop...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Free Canine Healthchecks Wednesday 3 June 2015.  For immediate release
 
COPELAND residents...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Heritage Help Copeland volunteers spread Heritage word
 
Wednesday 3 June 2015....     Media Media Info & Press Releases   An Evening on the Pull... Wednesday June 3 2015
 
A FUN hands–on activity learning about and...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland’s award-winning beaches Issued 22 May, 2015 for immediate use.
 
Three of Copeland’s...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Whitehaven Parish Council hold first meeting Release date: 22 May 2015.  For immediate release
 
The first...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Join the Chicken Challenge Join the Chicken Challenge and let’s halve campylobacter food...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Castle Park closes for road refurbishment COPELAND Borough Council would like to inform the public that there...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Beacon Museum Cumbria Tourism Awards The Beacon Museum is a finalist in the 2015 Cumbria Tourism Awards...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Hands-on construction courses Tuesday 28 April 2015.  For immediate release
 COPELAND residents and...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Caring homes for strays Monday 20 April  2015.  For immediate release
COPELAND Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Candidates quizzed at Youth Question Time Release date: 14 April 2015.  For immediate release
In a bid to get...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Mayoral Youth Question Time – Have Your Say Release date: 8th April 2015.  For immediate release
 
WITH only one...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   New plans for former Kangol factory Copeland Council has given the green light to plans that will allow...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council's Easter arrangements Tuesday 24 March 2015.  For immediate release
COPELAND Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Council marks Commonwealth Day Wednesday March 4 2015.
COPELAND Borough Council is once again...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland Council Offers Enhanced Bin Services Release date: Tuesday 03 March 2015.  For immediate release
COPELAND...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Wildflower Event to be held in Egremont Tuesday March 3 2015. For immediate release
 
EGREMONT Castle grounds...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland leads way in safeguarding children Tuesday February 3 2015. For immediate release
COPELAND Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Look before you book this Valentine’s Day Release date: 11 February 2015.  For immediate release
The last thing...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Find out more about standing for election Release date: 12 February  2015.  For immediate release
COPELAND...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Preparing cemeteries for spring Release date: 17 Feb 2015. For immediate release
All Copeland...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Register to Vote or Lose Out Release date: 17 Feb 2015.  For immediate release
Copeland Borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   US Navy Attaché visits Beacon Museum Release date:  11 February 2015.  For immediate release
THE Beacon...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Householders could be eligible for flood grants Monday January 19 2015. For immediate release.
THERE is still time...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Copeland continues grants to parish councils Wednesday January 21, 2015. For immediate release
COPELAND Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   NCL joins forces with GLL NCL joins forces with GLL to strengthen Social Enterprise in leisure...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Plan sees growth and prosperity for Copeland Release date Tuesday 13 January 2015.  For immediate release...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Local firms asked to bid for heritage projects Monday February 9 2015.  For immediate release
 
COPELAND Council is...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   US Navy Attaché to visit Beacon Museum Release date:  9 February 2015.  For immediate release
THE Beacon...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Are You Being Served? Wednesday January 7 2015. For immediate release
COPELAND Borough...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Beacon receives £900,993 grant Release date: 26 January 2015. For immediate release
Plans to expand...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Budget recommendations for Copeland Council Release date Thursday 8 January 2015.  For immediate release...     Media Media Info & Press Releases   Civic Hall welcomes new tenants Release date: 20 January 2015. For immediate release
Whitehaven Civic...              I want to  Pay for it A council tax invoice (Select Council Tax) Council tax by direct debit (Requires registration) Planning fees (No invoice)  Building Control first fee (No invoice)  Building Control inspection fees (With invoice)  A parking fine (Select Notice fines)  Any other council invoice   Download ALLPAY mobile app  ALLPAY for iPhone and iPad  ALLPAY for Android  ALLPAY for Windows phone   Report or request it  Make a complaint  Make an anonymous complaint  Make a comment  Pay us a compliment  Community trigger referral         Top Tasks   Council tax information  Benefit advice  I'm new to Copeland    Your bin collection day  Apply for a licence  Feedback on our services    Planning applications  Job vacancies  More quick links ...           Picture credits - Your photo could be here                      Business       Starting a Food Business      Animal boarding establishment licence      Starting up a new business in Copeland      Support from the Council for businesses      Health and Safety           Popular     A to Z listings  FAQ's  Glossary  Attachments library  Content by visits       Starting a Food Business      Contacting the Council      Food Hygiene Rating Syste...      Private Water Supplies      Animal boarding establish...           Visiting       Food Hygiene Rating System      Enjoying the scenery           Contact Copeland Council   Ways to contact us The Copeland Centre Catherine Street, Whitehaven Cumbria.  CA28 7SJ Tel:  01946 598300 Fax: 01946 598303 Email: info@copeland.gov.uk            Ask a question or submit a request    Your email address *     Your enquiry or question *          CAPTCHA This question is for testing whether you are a human visitor and to prevent automated spam submissions.    What code is in the image? *   Enter the characters shown in the image.           Wickedweb Digital Agency - SEO Agency London        Terms and conditions Privacy policy Sitemap               