GENDER PAY GAP 

REPORT 2017 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 

Humberside Fire and Rescue Service’s employees are our best asset. To continue to deliver an excellent emergency service to our communities over the 
next 10 years and beyond, we must look ahead to what we want the Service to look like in the future and move swiftly to prepare for what is to come.   A 
diverse and inclusive workforce is  key to achieving that vision.  

Equal pay is not the same as the gender pay gap.  Equal pay deals with pay discrimination and the differences in pay when members of the opposite sex 
are paid differently but yet they carry out the same work, similar work or work of equal value.  We are committed to supporting equality through fair pay and 
we strive to ensure that men and women are paid equally for doing equal work. The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average (mean or 
median) earnings of men and women. The mean is the average and the median is the middle number when hourly rates are placed in order from lowest to 
highest; both calculations are expressed as a percentage of male earnings. 

 
GENDER PAY AND BONUS GAPS 

 EMPLOYEES RECEIVING A BONUS 

mean  
pay gap 

median 
 pay gap 

mean 
bonus 

gap 

median 
bonus 

gap 

The calculation for ordinary pay is based on hourly rates calculated during the 
pay period that includes the snapshot date of 31 March 2017. The relevant bonus 
period is the 12-month period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.  No bonuses 
were paid within the Service during the bonus period.  

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

PAY QUARTILES 

Male 

Female 

LOWER 

LOWER MIDDLE 

UPPER MIDDLE 

50% 

50% 

6% 

94% 

10% 

90% 

UPPER 

8% 

92% 

The pay quartile data above shows the distribution of men and women in four equal quartiles across the Service when hourly rates of pay are 
ranked from lowest to highest 

Work Group 

Number of Staff 

GENDER PROFILE BY 
WORKGROUP ACROSS 
THE SERVICE AS AT 31 

MARCH 2017 

 

This profile clearly demonstrates that there 
is  a  much  higher  proportion  of  men 
employed  in  the  Service  than  Women, 
specifically within operational (Firefighting) 
roles.  Women  are  better  represented  in 
Support  and  Control  roles  although  these 
are  predominately  at 
lower  pay 
grades.  

the 

Control 

Female 

Male 

Support Staff 

Female 

Male 

On-Call 

Female 

Male 

Wholetime 

Female 

Male 

32 

24 

8 

222 

139 

83 

325 

11 

314 

487 

23 

464 

% 

75% 

25% 

62.6% 

37.4% 

3.3% 

96.7% 

4.7% 

95.3% 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

WHAT DO OUR RESULTS SHOW?  

The data results  are largely a reflection of the historically overwhelmingly male workforce and large number of senior posts on the operational side in 
the Service.  Due to the operational commitment, uniformed employees are paid under separate terms and conditions  (Grey Book) and are generally 
paid more than support (non-uniformed) employees  (Green Book). 
  
The nationally recognised job evaluation scheme for Green Book employees and national role maps for Grey Book employees do provide assurance 
within the pay scales i.e. that men and women are paid equally for the work they do within the same pay grade and within the parameters of the 
national conditions of service.  
 

CLOSING THE GAP 

The issues highlighted within this report are issues that are already well known to the Service (and the fire service sector generally).  Initiatives are 

already underway within the Service to encourage the recruitment and retention of more females across all roles and levels - Green Book and Grey 

Book.  The impact of these initiatives will take time.  

The pay gap is driven from a lack of females within the Service generally. Although the gender pay gap is high, the data was captured as at 31 

March 2017. Since then,  more females have been engaged in senior Green Book roles but there is still more work that needs to be done. There 

are some very positive initiatives that are gaining momentum within the Service  such as the HeForShe pledge that was signed In 2017and it is 

expected that once they have time to take effect, the gender pay gap statistics for the Service will continue to improve year on year.  

Change takes time but  progress is being made towards our key objectives, which are to:- 

Attract and retain the best talent which is increasingly diverse 

Achieve a gender balance within  the Service especially at the most senior levels 

Create a culture of inclusion to optimise team performance  and the quality of the service we provide 

Miriam Heppell – Director of HR 

