FIRST DERIVATIVES 
2017 GENDER PAY 
GAP REPORT

“FD  is  a  dynamic  and  exciting  place  to  work  where  anyone  can  reach  their 
full  potential.  As  such,  I  am  proud  of  the  role  FD  is  playing  in  improving 
the gender balance in technology in the UK. The under representation of 
women in IT, at just 17%, is well documented and is rightly regarded as an 
issue that needs to be addressed.

In the last three years alone, FD has recruited and trained 790 graduates, 
of which 237 (30%) were women, approaching double the national average. 
This is despite the fact that only 24% of STEM graduates are female, and 
underlines the fact that our recruitment processes are entirely bias free. 

Neither do we discriminate on pay – all our graduates start on the same 
package  and  become  eligible  for  the  group  bonus  scheme  after  three 
years, regardless of gender. We have systems in place to review and benchmark salaries and bonuses 
to ensure we pay our people fairly and objectively throughout their career, without bias or discrimination 
of any kind.

While we outperform our industry generally, more remains to be done. In particular, we recognise that 
women are under-represented in more senior management positions. To address this, in this report we 
have set out some of the measures we are taking to follow through on our commitment to greater gender 
diversity throughout FD.”   

Brian Conlon, CEO

First Derivatives ... a dynamic and exciting place to work where anyone can reach their full potential...

First Derivatives Gender Pay Gap Report  l   page 1

Results Summary

Gender Pay Gap - Mean and Median Figures
The table below shows the overall mean and median gender pay gap based on 
hourly rates of pay at the snapshot date (i.e. 5 April 2017). It also captures the 
mean and median difference between bonuses paid  to men and women at First 
Derivatives PLC for the financial year 2016-2017. 

 

Mean Pay Gap 

  Median Pay Gap 

 

Hourly fixed pay 

Bonus Paid 

22.96% 

54.79% 

  19.26%

  25.00%

Gender Pay 
Gap – Bonus 
Breakdown
The proportion of men and 
women receiving a bonus in 
Financial Year 2016-17 is as 
follows:

36.86%

Male %
Bonus

28.81%

Female %

Bonus

Gender Pay Gap Quartile Split 
The gender split among the Company’s 1176 UK workforce is 69.8% male and 30.2% female .

 
 
 

Lower Quartile 
Middle Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Upper Quartile 

Male 
 
 

63.61% 
66.67% 
71.09% 
78.23% 

Female 
 
 

36.39% 
33.33% 
28.91% 
21.77% 

Total 
 
 

294 
294 
294 
294 

Mean
Gender 
Gap as %

 

9.32
0.50   
2.82   
19.78

Action Plan
We  are  confident  that  men  and  women  are  paid  equally  for  doing  equivalent  jobs 
across our business. We aim to decrease the gender pay gap over the next 3 years 
by continuing to develop and promote women across FD.

Recruitment: Improving gender pay gaps starts with ensuring recruitment practices 
are targeted and unbiased. Our targeted recruitment campaigns aim to ensure that 
women  are  encouraged  to  join  FD.  We  have  increased  sponsorship  of  ‘Female 
Societies’  in  Universities  globally,  across  a  number  of  STEM  disciplines,  as  well  as 
targeting female recruitment at all levels in FD. 

Catherine Harrison
Senior Vice President

HR & Training

Culture:  FD  is  committed  to  developing  a  culture  of  high  performance  in  a  well 
supported and caring environment for all our staff regardless of gender. We celebrate 
and showcase female achievement across our business but recognise that there is more for us to do. 

Flexible working: We provide a range of flexible working options to encourage both women and men to balance their 
responsibilities and continue to work for FD as their lives change. As well as career breaks, shorter working hours and 
many work from home arrangements, we provide a flexible environment to ensure our female staff can continue to thrive 
and be successful.

Career development: We are committed to providing strong female role models for women throughout their careers. As 
well as raising the profile of women in leadership roles in FD we want to do more to nourish and develop some of the 
fantastic talent we have within our business and create the pathways, opportunities and support to help women succeed. 

Mentoring:  We  have  a  well  established  mentoring  programme  at  FD  which  aims  to  support  women  throughout  their 
careers. We have held a number of  ‘Women in Tech’ events globally to showcase our female talent and create a network 
of support for women across our business. Mentoring is a focus for the FD business, with Board level support, which will 
help with female retention and ensure that we promote female talent into leadership roles across our business. 

First Derivatives Gender Pay Gap Report  l   page 2

