 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Regulations came into force in April 2017 in the UK. The 
regulations mean that all employers with 250 or more employees are 
required to report their gender pay gap on an annual basis. SAMH is pleased 
to publish our first annual gender pay gap report as of 5 April 2017. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average (mean or median) earnings 
(hourly pay) of men and women. This is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. A 
positive figure means that females, on average, are paid less than males. A negative figure 
means that females, on average, are paid higher than males. 

  The median gender pay gap for SAMH is -1.60% 
  The mean gender pay gap for SAMH is -3.71% 
  As SAMH does not pay bonuses there are no figures to report in relation to bonuses. 
  The proportion of males and females in each pay quartile band is detailed below: 

 

 

 

 

The median gender pay gap for the whole of the UK (Office of National Statistics 20171) is 18.4% 
and the mean is 17.4%. At -1.6% (median) and -3.71% (mean), SAMH’s gender pay gap is 
therefore significantly lower in comparison. 

The SAMH median and mean gender pay gap shows that, on average, males are paid less than 
females. We have identified some of the factors that may account for the difference. These are: 

  SAMH’s workforce comprises of a significantly higher percentage of female employees 

(71%) than male employees (29%). This is comparable with relevant voluntary sector 
statistics2 in Scotland (77% female to 23% male). 

  There are a greater number of females in management positions.  
 

It is also noted that the percentage of males in each of the pay quartiles is broadly 
proportionate to the percentage of males across the whole of SAMH. 

 

We are delighted to see that both our median and mean pay differences are small and well 
below the national averages. However, we will continue to monitor and review the gender pay 
gap results and areas for continuous improvement to further close the gap. For example: 

1www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/bulletins/annualsurveyofho
ursandearnings/2017provisionaland2016revisedresults 
2 http://data.sssc.uk.com/component/ssscvisualisations/ (filtered by Voluntary Sector)  

creating a wider evidence base of data to identify and remove any potential barriers to gender 
equality and to increase the proportion of male employees in our organisation, including 
recruitment, retention, promotions, and take up of relevant benefits. 

SAMH remains committed to promoting diversity in the workplace and equal opportunities for all 
employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. SAMH pays the 
Living Wage as a minimum rate of pay and has a clear policy of paying employees equally for 
the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other protected characteristic as set 
out above). This is demonstrated through our defined and published pay scales and job 
evaluation process. We also have a robust and transparent approach to recruitment, appointing 
candidates based on performance and competence, regardless of any protected characteristic. 

 

Signed: Billy Watson 

 

 

Position: SAMH Chief Executive 

 

Dated: 12/03/2018  

