 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

29 March 2018 

 

 
 
 
Ark’s gender pay gap mirrors the national average (14.1% mean and 18.4% median).  
 

Women's hourly rate is 

14% LOWER 

(Mean) 

18% LOWER 

(Median) 

 
Ark Schools is an organisation with far more female (73%) than male (27%) employees. We 
have a large number of women in senior positions, including the majority of our 
headteachers, as well as a mostly-female senior management team. Despite this, when we 
crunched the numbers for our own report, we were surprised to discover that our gap came 
in at 14% (mean) - no better than the national average.  
  
Further digging revealed that men and women within Ark Schools generally do get paid 
equally, when doing the same jobs. For example, there is no real difference in teacher 
salaries throughout the network. Our gender gap stems from the fact that, while our 
workforce is predominantly female, women even more strongly outnumber men in primary 
schools and among admin and operational staff – all areas with lower average pay. Men are 
also more represented in leadership roles within the network (36% of our school leaders are 
men, compared to 27% of our workforce). Moreover, men are more likely to be leaders in the 
largest schools and therefore receive the highest pay and relatedly, the highest bonus 
payments. 
 
While our overall analysis confirms that that we pay people in the same roles similar 
amounts, we know that there is more we can do as an organisation, and indeed within the 
education sector to improve inclusion and diversity in general. Here are some of the actions 
we have been doing specifically to address the gender pay gap:  

  We are working with a company to provide us with new market-rate salary 

benchmarking figures for all Ark schools staff. We will use this information to 
provide principals with improved pay guidelines to support them in making 
discretionary salary decisions.  

  Our People Business Partners will have access to this benchmarking data and will 

step in to identify any areas where corrective action may be needed.  

  We are also in the midst of an organisational review of bonus criteria. Out of this, we 

will be implementing a new system which we believe will improve bonus-related 
gender pay gaps. 

  Our leadership development programmes support women with leadership potential 
to develop the skills and competencies to secure school leadership roles, within the 
network and the sector more widely. 

 
 
 
 

 
Quartile distribution:  
If salaries among all Ark staff are split into quartiles (consisting of four equal 
sections divided by salary amount) the distribution of men and women within each 
quartile is as follows: 
 

 

Upper quartile 
34% MEN 

66% WOMEN  

 

Upper middle quartile 

29% MEN 

71% WOMEN 

  

Lower middle quartile 

26% MEN 

74% WOMEN 

  

Lower quartile 
19% MEN 

81% WOMEN 

Who received bonus pay: 

5% OF WOMEN 

5% OF MEN 

 

Women's bonus pay is: 

49% LOWER (Mean) 
8% LOWER (Median) 

 

 
 
Bonus pay gap 
Bonuses are paid to a small proportion of people within the network – just 0.05%. 
And while the same proportion of men and women are receiving bonuses, bonus pay 
is 49% lower for women than for men. This difference stems partly from the fact that 
most of our largest, all-through schools are led by men, making them eligible for 
larger bonuses under our current system.  
 

