Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
It’s all about the people

About us

What is a gender pay gap?

Founded in 1934, we are one of the UK’s leading suppliers of specialist waste 
management solutions, offering a diverse range of services to householders 
and businesses nationwide. 

Our in-house transportation network enables us to collect most types of 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste streams from most locations, whilst 
our treatment and recovery centres utilise bespoke technology to wherever 
possible treat, recover and recycle the waste that we collect. As was the case 
in 1934, we remain a family-owned business to this day.

Based from our head office near Fareham, Hampshire we operate over 
20 facilities stretching from Cornwall to Kent and up to Manchester and 
Middlesbrough in the north with a team of drivers, operatives and specialist 
consultants working together throughout the UK.

We are strongly motivated by the goal of diverting waste from landfill, 
recovering and recycling as much as possible from the waste streams that we 
handle.

Our mission statement:

To grow a sustainable, innovative and prosperous business while maintaining 
a high level of commitment to customers, shareholders, employees and the 
environment.

Our core values:

•  Customer Service
• 

Innovation 

•  People
•  Heritage

£

£

From April 2017 the government introduced gender pay gap reporting for all 
companies with more than 250 employees on the snapshot date of 5th April. 
As the CSG group employed over 250 people on this date we are proud to 
comply with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017 and publish our data.

The gender pay gap measures the differences in average pay of male and 
female employees, irrespective of job role or seniority. This is different to equal 
pay which looks at the differences between male and females performing the 
same or similar work, or work of equal value. 

This is our report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

1

CSG’s gender pay gap

The mean gender pay gap for 
CSG is:

8.8%

The median gender pay gap 
for CSG is:

3.8%

How does our pay gap compare?

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are 
pleased to be able to say that CSG’s gap compares favourably with that of 
other organisations.

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the 
October 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours 
and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%.

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the 
October 2017 ONS ASHE figures) is 18.4%.

CSG

Whole Economy
(2017 ONS ASHE)

Mean Gender Pay Gap

8.8%

Median Gender Pay Gap

3.8%

17.4%

18.4%

2

How is the gender pay gap calculated?

Using the calculations set out in the gender pay gap reporting regulations, 
we have taken pay data from our entire business.  This data includes many 
different roles that bring a variety of rates of pay, but it excludes the non-
executive directors pay.

To calculate the median pay gap we listed the hourly pay rates from lowest 
to highest.  The median gender pay gap is the difference in pay between the 
female in the middle of the list and the male in the middle of the list.

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in average hourly rate of pay 
between men and women.  This is affected by the different numbers of men 
and women in different roles.

We have also calculated the percentage of men and women in each pay 
quartile.  Quartiles are calculated by listing the rates of pay for each employee 
from lowest to highest and splitting them into four equal-sized groups and 
calculating the percentage of males and females in each group.

Calculations of mean and median pay, and quartile pay bands are based on 
data from 5 April 2017 only, including ordinary pay and bonus pay.  

The mean gender bonus gap 
for CSG is:

The median gender bonus 
gap for CSG is:

51.8%

0%

Male employees in CSG that 
are receiving a bonus:

Female employees in CSG 
that are receiving a bonus:

Calculations of mean and median bonus pay use bonus pay from the twelve 
months ending on 5 April 2017.

86.4%

83.5%

3

Gender pay gap background

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be 
in senior roles (especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while 
women are more likely than men to be in front-line roles at the lower end of 
the organisation. 

In addition, men are more likely to be in technical roles, which attract higher 
rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority. Women are also 
more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected their 
career progression, for example to bring up children. 

Women are also more likely to work part-time, and many of the jobs that 
are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. This 
pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of CSG’s 
workforce with the majority of senior manager roles being held by men. 

This may be indicative of the waste management industry, with a larger 
number of male employees than females making up the CSG workforce.

At the snapshot date of 5th April 2017, we had 105 female employees and 352 
male employees.

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for:

The same or broadly similar work;

• 
•  Work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or
•  Work of equal value.

Female

Male

105

352

CSG is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage 
or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment or disability. 

CSG has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent 
work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). 

As such, it:

•  Carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals;
• 

Evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure.

4

Gender pay gap background cont’d

The gender bonus gap

CSG is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender 
pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

This can be seen below in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This 
shows CSG’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly 
pay rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower 
quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In 
order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio 
of men to women in each Band.

Band

Males

Females

A - Lower Quartile

69.3%

30.7%

The mean gender bonus gap for CSG is 51.8%; this is due to more males 
working in senior roles that attract a bonus. However, if the directors are 
removed from the calculation the mean gender bonus gap for CSG is 17.9%. 

The median gender bonus gap for CSG is 0.0%; this is due to an annual 
Companywide bonus scheme. 

The proportion of men at CSG who received a bonus in the 12 months up to 5 
April 2017 was 86.4%, while for women this was 83.5%. This again reflects our 
annual Companywide bonus scheme.

Male employees in CSG that 
are receiving a bonus:

Female employees in CSG 
that are receiving a bonus:

B - Lower Middle Quartile

76.5%

23.5%

86.4%

83.5%

C - Upper Middle Quartile

82.5%

17.5%

D - Upper Quartile

80%

20%

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

5

What is CSG doing?

Directors’ statement

While CSG’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations 
across the whole UK economy, this is not a subject that CSG is complacent 
about, and it is committed to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap. 

However, CSG also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it 
has, for example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to 
study or the career choices that they make.

The steps that CSG will take to promote gender diversity in all areas of its 
workforce include:

Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and 
inform priorities for action. This will include:

• 
• 

• 

• 
• 

The proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited.
The proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining 
promotions.
The proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their 
reasons for leaving.
The numbers of men and women in each role and pay band.
Take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the 
organisation.

These initiatives will not remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several
years before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, CSG is committed
to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay
gap and the progress that it is making.

I, Neil Richards, Managing Director, and I, Steve Hicks HR Director both 
confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.

Neil Richards
Managing Director

Steve Hicks
HR Director

Date: 28/03/2018

6

