Gender Pay Gap

Report 2017

“

I am very proud to be the founder of a business that employs 

over 500 women worldwide. 99% of our staff are female and we 

therefore invest heavily in female talent. We understand the purpose 

of the gender pay gap regulations and support it, as it aligns with 

our own. Unfortunately, due to low numbers of men in our business, 

our reporting figures are skewed. 

We pay women and men equally for comparable roles and we 

are committed to ensuring this continues. This report explains both 

our figures and the business we’ve created, where 75% of our 

leadership team is female, with the highest paid member a woman. 

I am determined to continue to empower women through even more 

opportunities in the business.

Tamara Hill-Norton, Founder & Creative Director

At  Sweaty  Betty  we  have  been  on  a  mission  to  empower 

women  for  20  years.  With  this  in  mind,  we  support  and 

recognise the importance of the Gender Pay Gap reporting 

in achieving gender equality in the workplace and fair pay. 

Here is the key information we wanted to share with you...

Sweaty Betty is made up of 99% female 

and 1% male employees

As a female-founded business, we have found that mostly
women have been attracted to our Purpose, brand and
products. Resulting in 99% of our employees being women. 
While  we  treat  all  applicants  equally,  we  find  that  it  is 
mostly  women  who  apply  to  work  with  us. We  are  proud 
that so many women love our brand and want to be a part 
of this journey.

*Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap

**Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap

Proportion Of Men Receiving A Bonus Payment

Proportion Of Women Receiving A Bonus Payment

54%

72.5%

75%

85%

Employee Breakdown by Pay Quartile

Proportion of males and females 

in each pay quartile

Male

Female

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

4%

0%

0%

0%

1%

96%

100%

100%

100%

99%

As  there  are  no  men  in  the  lower  and  middle  quartiles, 
we took a closer look at the Upper Quartile and found the 
below…

  Our current leadership team is 75% female.
   We’re proud to say the highest paid member of Team SB 

is female.

  96% of managers at Sweaty Betty are women.
   58%  of  our  current  leadership  team  (both  men  and 

women) work flexibly or part time.

   The  gender  pay  gap  across  our  leadership  team  in 
hourly pay, on the reported date, is a mean of -47% and 
median of -13% 

We pay women and men equally for comparable roles and 
we are committed to ensuring this continues. 

Calculation of Hourly Pay & Bonus Payments  

Due  to  the  high  proportion  of  women  working  at  Sweaty 
Betty, the results are skewed. We are very proud to offer so 
many opportunities and careers for women, though due to 
the absence of men from the middle lower quartile, there is 
a disproportionately high gender pay gap.

Mean Gender Pay Gap In Hourly Pay

Median Gender Pay Gap In Hourly Pay

62.4%

68.1%

The mean is the average of numbers in the data set. The median is the middle 
point within the data set when it is organised into numerical order.

One  of  the  main  reasons  for  these  results  is  that  100% 
of  our  retail  team  is  female.  80%  of  our  employees  are 
based  in-store  and  despite  our  best  efforts  to  attract  a 
diverse  workforce,  our  stores  are  currently  completely  run 
on girl power. On a very positive note, there is fixed and 
transparent  pay  across  the  retail  team,  as  each  store  has 
a  clear  hourly  wage  structure  based  on  the  location  and 
turnover. 

As a brand with a female founder we have a strong belief 
in empowering and supporting women. We love to promote 
internally  and  really  encourage  career  development  in  all 
areas of the business. We have a number of success stories 
where  women  have  been  able  to  develop  and  progress, 
for example a number of our Area Managers started out as 
Store Assistants.  

One  of  our  key  values  at  Sweaty  Betty  is  flexibility. You’ll 
find  everything  from  enhanced  maternity,  paternity  and 
adoption  benefits  of  up  to  six  months  full  pay,  to  flexible 
working  hours  and  childcare  support  of  up  to  10%  of  an 
employee’s  salary.  As  a  Mum  of  Three,  our  Founder  and 
Creative  Director,  Tamara  works  flexible  hours  herself,  so 
therefore is even more determined to support and empower 
women. 

One of the most important building blocks of Sweaty Betty 
is  to  support  women  and  ensure  they  flourish  equally  to 
men. So here’s to more girl power in 2018!

This  report  covers  employees  of  Sweaty  Betty  Ltd,  the 
main  employing  entity  of  Sweaty  Betty.  The  report  covers 
employees  of  Sweaty  Betty  Ltd  at  all  levels,  including  the 
executive team as at 5th April 2017. As Founder & Chief 
Creative  Officer  for  Sweaty  Betty,  I,  Tamara  Hill  Norton, 
can confirm that the information contained in this report is 
accurate.

