UK Gender Pay Report 2017

A commitment to diversity and inclusion has been at the core of our firm since 
Weil was founded and Weil has been a leader in investing in formal initiatives 
to cultivate an inclusive culture where all feel comfortable and encouraged 
to excel. We recognise that fostering an inclusive culture is crucial for us to 
attract, retain and develop the best talent and we are determined to continue 
our efforts to reduce our gender pay gap.
Our gender and bonus pay gaps do not stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work.

Pay and bonus gap 

Mean

Median

Hourly 
Pay

38.10%

53.31%

Bonus

50.09%

55.81%

This shows our mean and 
median pay gap based on hourly 
rates of pay, as of 5 April 2017. 
It also shows the mean and 
median difference in bonuses 
paid to men and women in the 
12 months to 5 April 2017

Proportion of women and 
men receiving a bonus

86% 
of women  

received a bonus

85% 
of men  

received a bonus

Pay 
quartiles 

Women

Men

32% 
Upper quartile

68% 

60% 
Upper-middle quartile

40% 

70% 
Lower-middle quartile

30% 

64% 
Lower quartile

36% 

This shows gender distribution across Weil’s 
London office in four equally sized quartiles, 
based on hourly pay.

New legislation requires all businesses with 250 or more employees in the UK to report on their gender pay gap. We set out here the gender pay report for 2017 for Weil 
Gotshal & Manges (London) LLP in accordance with this legislation (The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017).

Weil, Gotshal & Manges (London) LLP

Understanding our gender and bonus pay gaps

Our gender and bonus pay gaps do not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or equivalent 
work. Our gender and bonus pay gaps are mainly the 
result of the different roles in which men and women 
work within the firm. Although we employ more women 
(55%) than men (45%) overall in our London office, a large 
proportion of women (29.2%) work in secretarial roles. 
We also have a larger percentage of women working in 
business services than men (59% and 41% respectively). 
If we exclude those in secretarial roles from our gender 
pay calculations, our mean gender pay gap reduces to 
24.95% and the median to 7.28%. 

Men and women have an equal opportunity to earn a 
bonus at Weil, with 85% of men and 86% of women 
earning a bonus for the 12 months to 5 April 2017. As 
the gender bonus gap calculations are based on actual 
bonus amounts received and not on hours worked, our 
bonus gap is also in part due to the number of women 
who work part-time in the firm, as compared to men. 
For example, all of our secretaries are women, and 37% 
of them work part time. In addition, the percentage of 
our business services employees who work part-time is 
20% and all are women. 

What are we doing to address our gender pay gap?

Promoting gender diversity in all areas of our workforce 
is a core commitment of the firm. Weil has a firm-wide 
Taskforce on Women’s Engagement and Retention 
(TOWER), which is devoted to the retention and 
advancement of women at the firm. This task force 
is represented at the most senior management level 
in London. One of its first initiatives was to introduce 
an agile working policy, which was initially piloted in 
London and has now been formalized as an office-
wide policy. We also have in place our longstanding 
internal networking group Women@Weil, which brings 
women lawyers across all offices together and focuses 
on mentoring, networking, recruitment, retention, 
advancement, pro bono, business development and 
outreach. Within this group we have designed a series 
of career path talks – these sessions explore the career 
paths of the partners (both female and male) at Weil 
with a focus on the inspirations and successes of women.

All employees are encouraged to take part in our 
internal mentoring and coaching schemes, particularly 
with a focus on women mentors, career development 
and role models across London. In addition to providing 
generous and supportive parental leave benefits, new 
parent coaching was introduced several years ago to 
help our employees balance the different demands of 
their personal and professional lives.
Externally, our membership of the 30% Club and 
engagement with external mentoring and sponsorship 
programmes has enabled our female lawyers to benefit 
from the perspective of other organisations.
The success of these initiatives and adoption of other 
ways in which we can reduce our current gender pay 
gap is core to our future plans for London.

We confirm that the data in this report is accurate.

Michael Francies 
Managing Partner 
London

Jillian Singh 
Head of Human Resources 
London

Weil, Gotshal & Manges (London) LLP

weil.com

