 
 

 
Pennaf Housing Group Gender Pay Report March 2018 
 
All organisations employing over 250 people are required to publish their gender pay gap figures from 5 
April 2017.  This information is posted on the Government website. 
 
Within Pennaf Housing Group, Clwyd Alyn employs over 250 staff and it is this information that we must 
report.    This report contains both the gender pay information for Clwyd Alyn and Pennaf Housing Group 
as a whole.   
 
The gender pay gap looks at the difference in the average pay of men and women in an organisation. 
This is not the same as equal pay which is where men and women are paid the same pay for the same 
work within the Group in line with our Pay and Job Sizing Policy. 
 
‘Mean’, ‘Median’ and ‘Quartiles’ explained 
Like all organisations who employ over 250 staff, we must publish the difference in ‘mean’, ‘median’ and 
‘quartiles’  as  these  measures  ensure  everyone  publishes  their  data  in  a  consistent  way  for  ease  of 
comparison. This is how each measure is calculated: 
 
Mean  is  worked  out  by  adding  all  the  men’s  salaries  and  dividing  by  the  number  of  men  in  the 
organisation. All the women’s salaries are then added up and divided by the number of women.  
 
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between these two numbers.  
The overall Pennaf Housing Group Mean pay gap is 23.04% 
The Clwyd Alyn Housing Association Mean pay gap is 13.68%     
 
Median is calculated for each gender by listing all the salaries from highest to lowest and then selecting 
the number in the middle of that list. The median gender pay gap is the difference between the middle 
figure for women and for men.  
 
The Pennaf Housing Group Median pay gap is 18.38% 
The Clwyd Alyn Housing Association Median pay gap is 18.18% 

Quartiles are where all the salaries of both men and women are sorted by size and divided into equal 
quarters 

Pennaf Quartile & Earnings  Example Roles 

Number of Female 
Staff 

Lower Quartile                           
(up to £8.12 per hour) 

Care Staff, Cleaners, Café 
Staff 

128 (83.66%) 

Number of 
Male 
Staff 
25 (16.34%) 

Lower Middle Quartile     
(£8.13 - £9.75 per hour) 
Upper Middle Quartile     
(£9.76 - £13.25 per hour) 
Upper Quartile                 
(£13.26 and above per hour) 

Night Care Practitioner, 
Relief Project Workers 
Project Workers, Admin and 
Contact Centre 
Housing Roles, Nurses, 
Operatives, Directors, 
Managers 

113 (76.35%) 

35 (23.65%) 

90 (61.22%) 

57 (38.78%) 

77 (52.03%) 

71 (47.97%) 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
Why are there differences? 
 
A key factor is that we are a very diverse group and work across several different areas from Care and 
Extra Care to General Needs Housing, IS and Finance.    
 
Salaries will vary depending on the nature of the role and what other organisations are paying for similar 
roles. The amount paid by those commissioning our services will also have an impact. 
 
We  have  more  women  than  men  working  in  our  Care  and  Extra  Care  Services  where  salaries  are 
typically lower. This reflects national trends which is recognised within these sectors and are not specific 
to Pennaf Housing Group. 
 
Another key factor is that the majority of senior roles within the Group are fulfilled by men. 
 
How can we address the differences? 
Through the People Strategy agreed by the Board in July last year, we have been looking at ways in 
which we can raise awareness of the range of opportunities that exist across the Group. 
 

•  To  help  address  this,  we  have  implemented  Job  Shadowing  where  members  of  staff  are 

spending time with other colleagues to gain greater visibility of the work they do.   

 

 

 

•  We  are  monitoring  the  number  of  staff  who  make  internal  moves  and  have  set  the  following 
targets:  5%  of roles  are filled  by  internal  moves  in  2017/18,  15%  of roles  are  filled  by  internal 
moves in 2018/19. 

•  We have developed a simple one-page summary of all roles across the Group, organised into 
Job  Families.    Each  role  has  a  Learning  Pathway  which,  once  published,  will  enable  staff  to 
understand the skills and knowledge required for each role.  It will also help staff understand the 
range of opportunities across the Group. 

•  We are piloting approaches to help us identify staff who could take on different or broader roles 

within the organisation supported by a development plan. 

 
What else will we do? 

 

 

 

•  We will review our recruitment approaches and job descriptions for our Care, Technical and 

Senior roles to ensure we can attract both men and women into these roles. 

•  We will actively promote opportunities in the organisation to underrepresented groups. 

•  We  will  externally  benchmark  our  existing  arrangements  for  those  returning  from  maternity 
leave and those with carer responsibilities; changes will be implemented to ensure best practice. 

•  We will survey our part time staff and relief staff to understand whether they chose to work part 

time or whether they desire more flexible full-time roles or other working arrangements.   

•  We will seek further advice and guidance from organisations who  can further help us support 
women to enter the workplace, develop their skills and build rewarding careers with the Group.  

 
 
Report approved by Pennaf Board on 12th March 2018 
 

 

