Sony Europe Limited 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Introduction
Under new laws which have been welcomed by Sony Europe 
Limited, companies with more than 250 employees must annually 
report on the size of their gender pay gap as at the ‘snapshot date’ 
of 5 April 2017. There are statutory calculations which must be 
presented and reported on which we have included in this report

These are:

1.  Average gender pay gap as a mean average

2.  Average gender pay gap as a median average

3.  Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average

4.  Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average

5.   Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and 

proportion of females receiving a bonus payment

6.   Proportion of males and females when divided into four 

groups ordered from lowest to highest pay.

Sony Europe Limited is committed to being an equal opportunities 
employer and always aims to treat employees and job applicants 
fairly regardless of their gender, age, race, sexuality, full or part time 
status, religion and beliefs and disability.

What is the Gender Pay Gap and what is 
the difference between the Gender Pay 
Gap and Unequal Pay?
The gender pay gap can sometimes be confused with the law on 
equal pay; however, the gender pay gap is a wholly different concept:

• 

 Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and 
women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of 
equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally because of 
the difference in their sex. As a company we have robust pay 
processes in place to ensure so far as possible that we adhere 
to this. We are committed to ensuring we have a fair working 
environment, where we reward employees equally based on 
their performance.

• 

• 

 The gender pay gap shows the average differences in pay 
between all men and women in a workforce; this is expressed 
as a percentage of men’s earnings. The existence of a gender 
pay gap does not mean that there are unequal pay practices 
within any organisation. 

 A gender pay gap may occur for example where men and 
women are distributed unevenly across the workforce so if an 
organisation employs more women in lower paid types of work, 
they are likely to have a larger gender pay gap. The gender 
pay gap is influenced by a range of socio-economic factors for 
example, women choosing specific occupations, and returning 
to work following career breaks for childcare reasons into lower 
paid and often, part time jobs.

In Britain, there is an overall gender pay gap of 18.1%. Within Sony 
Europe Ltd the gender pay gap is 27.2%.

Causes of the Gender Pay Gap
We are confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from 
paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent 
work. Rather our gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which 
men and women work within our organisation and the salaries 
that these roles attract. We believe that within Sony Europe Ltd, 
the key reason we have a gender pay gap is because we have less 
women working in senior positions than men.  

37%

Upper 
Middle 
Quartile

63%

18.3%

Upper 
Quartile

81.7%

Male

Female

Average gender  
pay gap as a mean 

average
27.2%

Average gender  

pay gap as a median 

average
25.8%

39.6%

Lower 
Middle 
Quartile

60.4%

45.5%

Lower 
Quartile

54.5%

Proportion 
of males and 
females when 
divided into four 
groups ordered 
from lowest to 

highest pay

The results

Proportion of 

males receiving a 

bonus payment and 
proportion of females 

receiving a bonus 

payment

Average bonus 

gender pay gap as 
 a median average

70.2%

Average bonus 

gender pay gap as  

a mean average

53.7%

< Back to Contents

94.1% 90.3%

Male

Female

Confidential – Not for distribution outside SonyWhat are we doing about it?
We fully support the view that having a diverse workforce is key to 
creativity, innovation and ultimately the success of a company. As 
such for many years we have pro-actively designed and implemented 
initiatives to ensure that we have unbiased recruitment including;

•  Gender neutral role profiles

•  Unconscious bias interview training for managers

• 

Interviews conducted where possible by a man and woman

•  Scoring based Competency Based Interviews

However we realise that we can do more to ensure that we lower 
our Gender Pay Gap and especially to encourage and support more 
women into our senior roles. We will pro-actively be looking into what 
steps we can take over the next year to achieve this.

I confirm that the information and data reported is accurate and in line with the  
UK Government’s Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Andrew Beaumont, Head of HR, UK & Ireland

