Gender pay gap

MARCH 2018

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2018

Foreword
Foreword

Measuring the pay gap

Understanding the pay gap

Gender balance

Closing the gap

Foreword

At Card Factory, our mission is to be trusted for quality
and value to help celebrate everyone’s life moments. We
believe that our company success
is driven by our
colleagues who have and continue to work hard to make
the business a success. We value diversity and inclusion,
and are committed to ensuring that each colleague and
prospective employee has equality of opportunity.

In this report, we provide our gender pay gap information
from the pay period that includes April 5th 2017 (the
snapshot date) in line with requirements. Data is based on
average hourly pay rate comparisons, and includes data
that covers all Card Factory colleagues within the UK
(including Northern Ireland) who are employed by
Sportswift Ltd.

data

Our
requirements of the Equality Act 2010.

calculated

has

been

according

to

the

We are confident our approach to pay is gender neutral by
design. Our data indicates that median pay for women is
marginally higher than for men, whilst average pay is
11.5% higher for men than women. This difference is
driven by the structure of our workforce, and the fact that
we have more men than women in senior manager roles.
Bearing that in mind we will continue to identify ways in
which we can support and develop women who want to
progress within the company.

At the time of publishing, we are pleased to confirm that
our Executive Board is 37.5% female representation, and
our Operational Board has 28.6% female representation.
This differs from the situation as at the “snapshot date”,
particularly for bonus data, as the data included reflects
bonuses paid for FY16, which was based on a 0% female
representation on the Executive Board and a 12.5% female
representation on the Operational Board.

We are proud of our progress in striving to achieve greater
diversity, and of the many inspirational women and men
we have working for us.

Fast facts

41st

in the
Hampton-
Alexander
Review FTSE
250 for Women on 
Boards and in 
Leadership.

Proud to be a member 
of the 30% Club

63% 

Distribution 
Centre 
workers
are female.

2017 Worldpay
Everywoman in 
Retail Ambassador

Our
Executive Board 
consists of

37.5% 

women.

60% 

colleagues on our High 
Potential Leadership 
programme are female.

Karen Hubbard, CEO

Lucy Crowther, Group HR Director

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2018

Measuring the pay gap

Mean - national average

18.1%

Mean – Card Factory

11.5%

Median – Card Factory

-0.1%

Foreword

Measuring the pay gap
Measuring the pay gap

Understanding the pay gap

Gender balance

Closing the gap

Bonus
The proportion of men and women who
received a bonus in the 12 months leading
up to the snapshot date is shown to the
right.

Although overall we have a predominantly
female colleague base, the higher value
bonus payments were made to middle and
senior managers which, as at the snapshot
date, were predominantly male.

39.6%

27.9%

At first glance our gender pay gap figures suggest
that on average men are paid more per hour at
Card Factory than women, which does not truly
reflect the position within our Company. Our
hourly paid colleagues are paid the same hourly
rate regardless of gender, and we believe our
approach to pay generally is gender neutral by
design.

The pay gap and bonus gap is driven by a
greater proportion of males in senior roles.
Our statistics reflect the number of female
workers that make up our retail job family.
In retail 85% of our colleagues are female,
whilst in other areas of the business (where
colleagues are typically paid a higher salary)
we have a more even gender balance.

The median gender pay gap for Card Factory,
eliminates
the distortion created by high
earners at the top of the organisation, and
actually shows that there is a £0.01 difference
between the median pay for men and women,
showing on average women are paid 1p more
per hour than male colleagues.

The charts below show the gender distribution of
Card Factory’s colleagues split into four equally
sized quartiles. There are over 1600 colleagues in
each quartile, and our retail colleagues appear in
all 4 of the quartiles, as we have over 5500
colleagues working in hourly paid roles in retail.

Gender demographics per quartile

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile

Upper middle quartile

Upper quartile

Male
19%

Male
14%

Male
13%

Male
20%

Female
81%

Female
86%

Female
87%

Female
80%

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2018

Foreword

Measuring the pay gap

Understanding the pay gap
Understanding the pay gap

Gender balance

Closing the gap

Understanding the pay gap

The findings from our report show that overall 83.4% of our colleagues are female. Figures published by Women in Retail (based on Elixirr analysis of the FTSE 350 Companies) show that only 10% of
those on executive boards are women, so we are proud to be increasing our female representation on the operating board, to over 3 times that number.

Although our mean gender pay gap is lower than the national figure reported by the Office for National Statistics for 2016, we are by no means complacent and are committed to taking action to
achieve greater diversity. We are confident that through the appointment of new executives, some of which happen to be female, and improving the support we give our existing talent within our
organisation we can further reduce this pay gap over the coming years.

The bonus structure that is reflected in this report incorporates a number of different schemes, some of which were reviewed and harmonised since the snapshot date. During 2017 we also launched a
new bonus structure in the Support Centre, which is based on job families, and can be impacted by both personal and company performance, and will go a long way to improving our bonus pay gap.
This is something we will continue to review.

Difference between men & 
women

Gender pay gap

Mean
Average

11.5%

Median

Middle

-0.1%

Gender bonus gap

92.6%

33.3%

National Mean 2016
(as reported by the ONS)

18.1%

Our Workforce and Bonus Distribution at the snapshot date

• Card Factory’s gender bonus gap at the snapshot date reflects the lean organisational structure of its workforce and the nature 

of bonus entitlements at that time.

• A significant proportion of Card Factory’s overall 2017 bonus spend was made to a small number of senior managers but were 

exceptional bonus payments. 

• Any awards to retail colleagues, who form the significant majority of our workforce (92%), were by contrast very small in 

monetary terms reflecting the fact that these are lower paid roles.

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2018

Foreword

Measuring the pay gap

Understanding the pay gap

Gender balance
Gender balance

Closing the gap

A look at our current Gender Split (February 2018)

Whilst this data is not an essential criteria to
report on, during 2017 we undertook a job levelling
exercise with our salaried colleagues and are proud
to include details of our gender split by job family.

It is pleasing to report that women make up 64% of
the workforce in our distribution centres. Working
alongside local agencies and sourcing directly
through referrals we are able to support more
women working in our distribution centres. We
offer flexibility in shift times, and have approved
45 flexible working requests in this area alone
during 2017. Although we have a high proportion of
women working in our distribution centres, the
roles which attract a higher pay, such as those that
operate heavier machinery tend to be done by our
male colleagues. We are working to upskill more of
our female colleagues to enable them to take on
these roles if they so choose.

We are consciously aware that the top 3 bands
within our job families are the 3 areas where
women are under represented, and as detailed
elsewhere we are focussed on steps to try to
address this imbalance. The top 3 bands only
equate to 32 colleagues within the business, and
this is why the quartile analysis does not reflect
the gender split shown here for the upper quartile
(which includes over 1600 colleagues).

Executive board

Operating board

37.5%

Senior Leaders

Support Centre Senior Managers

29.4%

Support Centre Managers

Support Centre Team Leaders

57.8%

Support Centre Colleagues

Distribution Centres

84.4%

Retail

28.6%

78.8%

54.7%

63.7%

85.5%

During 2017 our recruitment processes for retail have been
completely reviewed and redesigned to encourage applicants
from all backgrounds, and of all genders,
to apply for
opportunities within our company.

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2018

Foreword

Measuring the pay gap

Understanding the pay gap

Gender balance

Closing the gap
Closing the gap

Looking forward

We are proud of our progress and future roadmap in striving to achieve greater diversity and are extremely proud of the inspirational women and men we have working for us. As a
Company we have secured 6 places at the Oxford Summer School to invest in our future leadership talent, and we are delivering a High Potential Leadership programme to managers
within the business. In both cases the attendees are majority female.

Other initiatives to achieve greater equality and diversity include:

• Delivering unconscious bias training to all managers within the business responsible for making decisions relating to recruitment, development, performance and managing teams;
• Developing our family friendly policies and actively promoting these within the business;
• Continuing to support female talent within the business to ensure they have the relevant skills and opportunities to progress into senior roles; and
• On an ongoing basis we will be evaluating the effectiveness of our new bonus structure, and the impact on our bonus pay gap.

