BRITISH AIRWAYS :, 

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P  

REPORT 2017 

“At British Airways, our people 
are at the heart of our business. 
We are fully committed to building 
a workforce that reflects the 
 
diversity of the customers we 
serve and to promote an inclusive 
and collaborative culture.” 

Maria Da Cunha – Director, People and Legal 

At British Airways, we have a median gender pay gap 
of 10%. This is smaller than the current national median 
average of 18.1% and we are working hard to further 
close the gap.
When it comes to bonus pay, the gender pay gap 
actually favours women, with a median of -19%. 

PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCES 

Hourly pay difference 
Bonus pay difference 

Mean 
35% 
20% 

Median 

10% 
*-19% 

*A negative number means the gap favours women 

,) 

CAUSES OF THE GENDER PAY GAP 

The airline industry has historically been male 
dominated, particularly in the pilot community. 
This remains the case at British Airways, 
where 94% of pilots are male. 
Our gender pay gap is largely attributable to the lack of female 
representation at the more senior level of pilots and management, 
rather than an equal pay issue. 
When pilots are excluded from the calculations, the pay difference 
favours women by 1%. 

CAUSES OF THE 
BONUS GAP 

Men and women have the 
same opportunity to earn a 
bonus through British Airways’ 
corporate bonus scheme. 
The data indicates that although 
our mean bonus gap favours 
men, the median bonus gap 
favours women. 

98% 

96% 

In the period to be reported, 98% of men and 
96% of women received a bonus at British Airways. 
Our clear bonus guidelines mean that bonus awards 
are fair and non-discriminatory. 
Everyone across the company is eligible to receive 
a bonus. 

British Airways is proud to support those who choose to work on a part-time basis where possible. 
However the bonus calculation does not account for the number of these part-time employees, 
most of whom are women in our lower pay quartile. As the Government requires that the calculation 
is based on actual bonuses received rather than on a full-time equivalent basis, it is important to 
take this into account when considering the mean and median bonus numbers. 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 1 

BRITISH AIRWAYS :, 

PAY QUARTILES 
The gender distribution across our pay groups indicates that 46% of the British Airways workforce 
is made up of women and that there are more men than women in senior roles. This suggests that 
the gaps reflect the fact that there are fewer women in these roles, rather than an equal pay issue. 
 

PROPORTION OF WOMEN AND MEN IN EACH PAY QUARTILE 

51% 
 
M 
 

49% 
 

F 
 

53% 
 
M 
 

47% 
 

F 
 

55% 
 
M 
 

45% 
 

F 
 

34% 
 

F 
 

66% 
 
M 
 

Lowest quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Highest quartile 

HOW WE ARE ADDRESSING THESE DIFFERENCES 
We are working hard to close the gender pay gap by building a more diverse and inclusive workforce: 
•  We continue to tackle the gender imbalance at senior levels and within roles and careers in the 

STEM sector (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths). Over the last two years we have seen 
an increase in STEM work experience placements completed by women 

•  We have initiatives in place with schools and colleges in the local community to help promote 

a diverse range of equal opportunities for both male and female employees 

•  We have launched a series of targeted media campaigns and promotions to attract more women 

into our pilot community 

•  We have a talent and leadership initiative for women across IAG at senior levels and actively 

monitor its progress on a regular basis 

•  We are committed to improving opportunities for progression and development across  

British Airways for employees of all genders and backgrounds 

USEFUL TERMS: 
Equal pay is when men and women performing equal work receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010. 
Gender pay gap refers to the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings across the organisation, 
expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. 

We confirm the data reported is accurate 
 
Maria da Cunha 
British Airways 
Director of People & Legal 

Andrew Fleming 
British Airways 
Company Secretary 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 2 

