Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Motability Operations Ltd   
2017 Gender pay gap report

At Motability Operations, we believe in 
accessibility in the broadest sense, recognising 
that everyone has differences in capabilities, 
needs and aspirations. By being open to the 
diversity of customers, and encouraging the 
same in our communities, we can create 
engaging and inclusive experiences for all.
Within our business, this means providing the 
same job opportunities for every employee. It 
means sustaining a culture where people are free 
to flourish, and their contribution is rewarded 
equally, regardless of race, national or ethnic 
origin, disability, or gender.
The gender pay gap is a measure that shows 
the difference in average earnings between men 
and women. It is distinct from equal pay, which 
is about ensuring that men and women are paid 
the same for carrying out work of an equal value.
At Motability Operations, the issue of equal pay is 
reviewed on a regular basis, and we are confident 
that we do not discriminate on the basis of 
gender or any other factor. 

However, our evaluation does show that a  
gender pay gap exists, driven by the make-up  
of our workforce. 
This is largely because we have a smaller number 
of women in technical roles, which are typically 
higher-paid, and conversely, fewer men working 
in lower-paid roles, such as our customer  
contact centre. We also have only a small 
number of female directors (now one)  
compared to male directors.
Although we can explain this gender pay gap, we 
recognise that we have a job to do to increase 
representation of women, particularly in specialist 
technical roles, and at Board level. An advantage 
in this is that we already have a high number 
of women in senior management, and only a 
very small gender pay difference at this level; an 
example to build on.
We are already underway with initiatives aimed 
at improving representation in key roles, and will 
take further steps. These include:

•  Making gender diversity and inclusion a key 

focus at Board level

•  Adopting working practices which build a 

positive culture for women to succeed
•  Extending the IT graduate placement 

programme with an emphasis on developing 
female talent

•  Eliminating the small gender pay gap at head 

of function level

•  Training all managers in bias-free management 

and recruitment

•  Creating a diversity forum to guide potential 

solutions to advance gender equality

We are, however realistic enough to know that 
these will take a while to have impact. 
We welcome the greater transparency of the 
issues raised through the Government’s gender 
pay reporting initiative and are firmly committed 
to addressing and reducing our gender pay gap 
over the next few years.

Gender pay gap report p1

Home

Motability Operations Ltd results

The gender pay gap reporting regulations came into effect in April 2017. Employers 
with more than 250 employees are required to measure and report on data relating 
to gender pay and bonuses. Motability Operations Ltd’s results are set out below:

Difference in pay between male and female employees

Pay gap
Mean pay gap 
27.2%
Median pay gap 
23.3%

Bonus gap
Mean bonus gap 
61.4%
Median bonus gap 
35.3%

Proportion of male and female 
employees receiving a bonus

Male 

85.6%

Female 

87.3%

Mean and Median
The gender pay gap shows the difference between the mean (average) and median (mid-point) pay 
and bonus of male and female employees, expressed as a percentage of male employee’s earnings.

Gender pay gap report p2

Home

Motability Operations Ltd results continued

Proportion of male and female employees in each pay quartile

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

31%

45.7%

33.6%

29.1%

69%

54.3%

66.4%

70.9%

Gender pay gap report p3

Home

The gender pay gap

Motability Operations Ltd’s gender pay gap of 
27.2% represents the difference in the average 
pay and bonuses of all employees across the 
organisation. Although our analysis shows we 
pay equal rates for work of equivalent value, the 
gender pay gap emerges because there is an 
uneven distribution of men and women across 
different areas of the business. 
At Motability Operations Ltd, we see a higher 
number of men in more specialist, technical 
roles, such as IT, where the proportion of male 
applicants for roles exceeds female applicants 
significantly, and salary levels are generally 
higher. Conversely, some areas of the business 
that do not necessarily attract this salary 
premium, such as our customer support centre, 
have a larger proportion of women.

We offer an equal chance for all employees 
to receive an annual bonus; in fact, over 86% 
received a bonus last year, (though 84% of 
those did not receive their maximum bonus 
potential). 
Motability Operations’ gender pay gap of 27.2% 
is lower than the 34% indicative average for the 
financial services industry, but it is above the 
average of 18.1% for all businesses currently 
reported by the Office of National Statistics. 
Naturally, we are addressing this with positive 
and meaningful steps.

“Our business is all  
about changing 
lives, and increasing 
opportunities for people 
with diverse needs.”
  Mike Betts, Chief Executive

Gender pay gap report p4

Home

How we will address the gender pay gap

Our business is all about changing lives, and 
increasing opportunities for people with diverse 
needs. Over the years we have implemented 
many changes to improve disability confidence 
and establish barrier-free recruitment. However, 
it’s clear there is more to be done to increase 
the number of women in executive, middle 
management and technical roles, and to build a 
culture which encourages employees, whatever 
their gender, attribute or life choices, to grow 
and flourish.
To underline the seriousness of this commitment, 
the Board will be taking direct responsibility for 
diversity and inclusion. Over time, we will oversee 
steps to reduce our gender pay gap, and ensure 
that inclusion continues to be a normal part of 
who we are and what we do. We are actively 
reviewing how our working practices can make 
roles in the organisation more accessible to all.
We also intend to explore with the wider business 
initiatives such as a Women’s Networking Group, 
to provide a forum for discussing ideas and 
potential solutions to advance gender equality. 
If this proves popular, we hope that the WNG 
will become the place to consider ideas brought 

Gender pay gap report p5

forward, and influence how these steps might  
be implemented.
We actively encourage internal development; just 
over 50% of our senior managers are women, the 
majority of whom were promoted from within. 
We plan to maintain this representation, and 
close the negligible gender pay gap at this level. 
In order to extend this, we will further encourage 
women to join us, and help them advance within 
the business to ensure a rich pipeline of talent 
that includes a balance of women and men. 
This will include looking at inclusive, barrier-
free management, and encouraging gender-
balanced shortlists for key roles. Within the next 
twelve months we expect to train all managers 
in bias-free management and recruitment 
practices, in an effort to reduce any unconscious 
bias in our business.
One route into the organisation is our graduate 
scheme; to date we have appointed 54 
graduates, 31 of them women. Since the IT 
Placement Scheme was introduced, four have 
achieved permanent roles, two of them women, 
and we plan to extend this Scheme with an 

emphasis on developing female talent.
Finally, a programme to update the workplace 
and create a working environment that 
attracts and supports every employee is well 
underway. We will ensure this programme 
specifically considers the need for encouraging 
diversity, and will encompass areas such as 
dynamic working, and access to training and 
professional networking.
We will publish an annual report of our progress 
on these measures on our website.
Declaration 
I confirm that the information contained in this 
report is accurate.

Mike Betts 
Chief Executive

Home

Home

 

8
1
0
2
h
c
r
a
M

motabilityoperations.co.uk

