Petrofac Facilities Management Ltd (PFML)
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

This report sets out the results of our first gender pay gap analysis calculated in line with the new UK 
disclosure regulations.  This relates to PFML, which predominately covers our North Sea Operations, 
Maintenance and Engineering business. The report also sets out the findings of additional analysis we have 
undertaken in order to better understand the underlying causes of our pay gap, as well as the initiatives we 
have implemented in recognition of the gap. 

Petrofac is committed to building and developing our female talent pipeline in a predominantly 
male-dominated industry.  Through our Diversity and Inclusion Policy, we aim to ensure equality 
of opportunity and fairness in all areas of employment.

Pay
The following table sets out our mean and median 
hourly gender pay gap based on hourly rates from a 
snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

Bonus pay
The following table sets out our mean and median 
bonus pay gap based on all incentive pay in the 12 
months previous to 5 April 2017.

Hourly rate of pay

Mean

35.5%

Median

41.4%

Bonus pay

Mean

46.9%

Median

51.7%

Pay quartiles
The following charts illustrate the distribution of genders across four equally sized pay quartiles. 

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

Male

Female

53.2%

46.8%

89.6%

10.4%

96.1%

3.9%

94.3%

5.7%

Proportion receiving bonus pay
The following chart illustrates the proportion of male and female employees who received bonus pay in the 12 
months to 5 April 2017.

Female

Male

30.0%

29.8%

0%

5%

10%

15%

20%

25%

30%

35%

The data set out here is a snapshot 
of our UK workforce, making up 
around 19% of our global workforce. 
In addition, in line with the 
regulations, it does not include data 
on the small number of personnel 
employed through Petrofac Services 
Limited. 

Petrofac Facilities Management Ltd
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Understanding our gender pay gap
Distribution by seniority
The Company has undertaken some additional analysis in order to help understand the reasons for our 
gender pay gap. Petrofac is a leading service provider to the oil and gas industry. We design, build, operate 
and maintain oil and gas facilities, in what is widely acknowledged to be a male-dominated industry.

In April 2017 PFML had 2535 employees, of which 424 (17%) are female. Our analysis has identified that the 
gender pay gap at Petrofac is due to the distribution of men and women throughout the organisation. As set 
out below, the majority of the senior positions within the business are filled by men.  As salary and bonus 
levels are higher for more senior grades, the average pay for men is higher than for women.  

5%

95%

l

e
v
e
L

19%

16%

81%

84%

Female Male

Onshore and offshore populations
In addition, our gender pay gap is further impacted by the composition of our offshore workforce. 59% of our 
workforce is based offshore/onsite and 2% of these roles are filled by females. Industry wide, offshore/onsite 
roles receive higher pay on average, and the workforce is overwhelmingly male.  The separate gender pay 
gaps for onshore and offshore/ on-site are both lower than when combined into the final figure.

Functional populations
In reviewing pay across our internal functions, it is clear that women are most heavily represented within those 
functions that tend to have lower average rates of pay. Conversely, functions that tend to have higher average 
rates of pay, such as offshore and engineering, generally have much higher male representation.

Bonus pay
The rationale for our bonus pay gap is very similar to that outlined above, with the key cause being the 
distribution of men and women throughout the organisation, which is a reflection of the wider industry 
dynamics.  With bonuses being higher at more senior grades, and most employees at these grades being 
male, the average bonus received by male employees is higher than for female employees.

Petrofac Facilities Management Ltd
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Addressing the gender pay gap
We are committed to promoting diversity and inclusion in the workplace, and ensuring that due regard is given 
to the balance of existing skills, knowledge, experience and diversity for all appointments, irrespective of 
gender.  Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy is integral to our Code of Conduct, and is supported by robust local 
policies. 

Engineering has traditionally been a male-dominated industry, and encouraging females into engineering 
careers is not solely an issue for Petrofac: in 2017, only 11% of the UK professional engineering workforce 
was female. [1] The distribution of male and female employees within the company is consistent with our 
industry peers.

Although it will take years for industries such as ours to make the fundamental changes that will close this 
gap, we are totally committed to addressing the issue. A more diverse business is a stronger business.

We are involved in activities that encourage greater female participation in Science, Technology, Engineering 
and Maths (STEM) subjects at schools through our partnership with the Royal Academy of Engineering’s 
STEM Teacher Connectors project.  This programme provides STEM teachers with training, resources and 
networking opportunities to help them engage a greater number and wider spectrum of pupils in STEM and in 
turn to increase the national network of support for all STEM teachers.  In the relevant academic year, more 
than half of students reached by this programme were female.

Internally, our Board Nominations Committee works in collaboration with our Group HR function to conduct 
annual reviews of both senior management and emerging talent. As part of this process, we also review the 
gender mix of our high potential employees.

In 2017, 16% of students enrolled in our graduate recruitment programme through the Petrofac Academy were 
female and we are committed to increasing this number in subsequent years.

Declaration
I confirm that the gender pay gap calculations set out in this report are accurate and meet the requirements of 
the legislation.

John Pearson
Chief Development Officer & Group Managing Director of Western Hemisphere

[1] Women in STEM Workforce 2017, WISE Campaign, https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/resources/2017/10/women-in-stem-
workforce-2017

