 
22nd March 2018 
 
 
Cheam Academies Network (Cheam High School) 2016 to 2017 Gender Pay Gap Data 
 
The Trust has calculated the gender pay gap in line with government expectations.  This calculation is based 
upon a total of 295 employees on the payroll on 31 March 2017.  When looking at the figures (found at the 
end of this document) it is useful to know that the Trust workforce consists of two distinct groups paid in 
very different ways: teachers and support staff.  The Trust has roughly equal numbers of teaching and 
support staff, though full-time-equivalent roles would give different proportions.   
 
Both groups of staff do not barter or bargain their salary each year, instead any increase is subject to 
performance management with potential increases linked to the pay-scale.   
 
Teachers 
 

  Teachers are paid an overall salary per annum.  They also have various professional duties to 

undertake in addition to lessons such as parents’ evenings, reports, open evenings, meetings and 
training.  Teachers will also spend significant additional time each week in marking, preparation 
and curriculum development as well as providing extra support or extra- curricular experiences for 
students. 
 

  Teachers, whether female or male, are paid on an agreed scale.  Teachers of similar experience and 

performance within a subject and holding similar responsibilities are, therefore, paid the same for 
their work regardless of gender.  Posts are advertised indicating the salary range that applies. 

Support staff 
 

  Support staff are paid by the hours worked.  They are a very important part of the work of the 
school.  Support staff roles include invigilators who undertake work at certain times of the year 
(e.g. public examinations), others working a few hours each week and those who work 36 hours in 
a full-time or term-time only role. 
 

 
 

  Support staff roles are advertised with the pay range to be paid for the role.  There is no 

differentiation by gender.  Support staff have salary increases each year within the published scale, 
subject to successful performance management.    

The Trust remains committed to equal opportunities for a range of characteristics; this would include pay 
equality for men and women so that men are not paid more than women for undertaking the same job role 
or vice versa. 
 

 

R Allott 
Executive Principal 
 
 
 
Table 1 – Headline Data 
 
 
 

Difference in mean hourly rate of pay 

15.7%  The mean or average hourly rate is 

 
Difference in median hourly rate of pay 

15.7% higher for men. 
 

 
52.9%  The median hourly rate is 52.9% higher 

 
Difference in mean bonus pay 
 
Difference in median bonus pay 
 
Percentage of employees who received bonus  0% 
 

 
0% 
 
0% 
 

 

for men. 
 
[Bonuses are not paid] 
 
[Bonuses are not paid] 
 
[Bonuses are not paid] 
 

 
Table 2 – Analysis by Pay Quartile 
 
 

Employees by pay quartile 
 
Upper Quartile 
 
Upper Middle Quartile 
 
Lower Middle Quartile 
 
Lower Quartile 
 

Male 
 
27% 
 
28% 
 
22% 
 
15% 
 

 
 
 
 

Female 
 
73% 
 
72% 
 
78% 
 
85% 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

