innogy Renewables 2017 Gender Pay Gap

This report presents the 2017 gender pay gap for Innogy Renewables UK Limited.

What is the gender pay gap?           

The gender pay gap measures the difference between the average pay of  all men and women in a company, for a 
picture of where they tend to work. 

Often, the gender pay gap  is confused with unequal pay, though this is a different measurement. 

Unequal pay is when one gender is paid less than the other for the same work. Unlike the gender pay gap, which 
measures the difference in earnings at the company level,  this is calculated by comparing the pay of employees on a 
case-by-case basis.

What is our gender pay gap?

What causes our gender pay gap?                   

Our Next Steps

We’ve worked to understand the story behind our numbers.  Many 
factors drive the difference in the average earnings of our men and 
women, but internally there are two significant causes. 

Firstly, we know that men and women tend to work at different 
levels in our company. As a general trend, men are more likely to 
work in our senior positions than women.

Secondly, a far higher proportion of our women work in part time 
roles. While this bears no impact on women’s hourly basic pay, this 
does impact other elements in the pay package. 

Understanding the social context, spotlight on STEM

innogy Renewables UK is a STEM employer and a large share of its 
roles require highly-skilled workers from the science, technology, 
engineering and maths related disciplines. 

Women are a minority of the UK’s STEM workforce – only 8% of 
engineering professionals are women¹.  As a social trend , women 
are less likely to study in the STEM fields, meaning fewer can apply 
for STEM roles.  Attracting women to our industry  is a challenge 
and  part of a bigger social problem.  We are taking steps to 
ensure we attract the best female talent and give  them the best 
opportunities to develop and progress once they are here. 

1. WISE, 2016 

While a lot of the differences in where our men and women 
work come down to different choices, we care about building 
an environment where all employees have access to the same 
opportunities. We’ll continue our work towards this in three areas:

1.  Attraction and Selection - developing unbiased channels to 

attract and select diverse talent at all levels.

2.  Flexible Working - create an inclusive place to work by 
supporting part-time and flexible working at all levels.

3.  Succession Planning - create a diverse leadership pipeline 

through succession planning and tailored development paths.

Statement 
We confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and 
in line with mandatory requirements:

Paul Cowling
Managing Director, Innogy Renewables UK Limited

