The Blackstone Group International Partners LLP
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Our commitment to promoting diversity within Blackstone

At Blackstone, we understand the value of building a more diverse and inclusive workforce. It’s critical to create an environment in which 
innovation, challenge and ideas are recognised and expected at every level. It has earned us our highly respected reputation and diverse client 
and investor base. Our employees’ unique passions and contrasting backgrounds make Blackstone successful. They have told us that they 
are proud to work here – we scored 82% on our overall employee engagement index in our last engagement survey and we have consistently 
been named a ‘Best Place to Work’ in our sector.

As part of our continuing efforts to increase our diversity, one of our top priorities is to recruit and retain talented women and, in doing so, 
create a strong community of female professionals within the firm. We have an established track record of initiatives working towards this goal in 
the UK and globally. In line with UK regulations, we are now publishing our 2017 gender pay gap figures for employees of The Blackstone Group 
International Partners LLP (BGIP). This has given us an opportunity to reflect on what our figures tell us about progression at Blackstone and 
what else we can do to continue to drive our inclusive talent agenda across the firm.

Our Gender Pay Gap figures

As required by new regulations, the figures relate to BGIP and represent differences in pay for all male and female employees, both as a group 
and regardless of role. This information is confirmed as accurate by the Chairman of BGIP and is independently validated.

30.0%

Mean hourly pay gap:  
The  mean  hourly  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  average 
hourly pay for all male employees and the average hourly pay for all 
female employees, regardless of role. Hourly pay comprises salary and 
allowances paid in April 2017. 

75.4%

Mean bonus pay gap: 
The mean bonus pay gap is the difference between the average bonus 
pay for all male employees and the average bonus pay for all female 
employees for the 12-month period to April 2017. Bonus pay includes 
annual bonuses, distributions and deferred stock compensation. 

The median hourly pay gap is 34.9%.

The median bonus pay gap is 84.9%.

 
Proportion of men and women in each hourly pay quartile:

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus:

Upper

Upper middle 

Lower middle 

Lower

71%

29%

71%

29%

43%

57%

21%

79%

Key

83.8%

94.3%

This is calculated from a ranked list of hourly pay for all employees. 
The  list  is  divided  into  four  equal  groups  (i.e.  quartiles)  and 
the  percentage  of  men  and  women  in  each  quartile  is  shown.  
This information highlights what is driving our hourly pay gaps. 

This is the proportion of men and women who received a bonus in 
the 12 months to April 2017, expressed as a percentage of all male or 
female employees. 

 Close to three-quarters of our male employees are investment professionals. As these roles typically attract higher rewards than non-investment 
roles, this increases the average pay for male employees. In contrast, less than a fifth of our female employees are investment professionals 
and nearly three quarters are in support and administrative roles. While we pay competitively for these roles, the rewards are lower than for 
other roles. This lowers the average pay for women.  

The Blackstone Group International Partners LLP Gender Pay Gap Report 2017What is gender pay gap reporting?

To encourage all employers to do more to support women into better paid and more senior roles, the UK Government is requiring employers 
with 250 or more employees to report their gender pay gaps annually. 

Is it the same as equal pay?

Gender pay comparison

Equal pay comparison

No. A gender pay gap is a group comparison. It compares the 
pay of all male and female employees.
An equal pay gap is an individual comparison. It compares the pay 
of a man and a woman who hold equivalent roles within a company. 

We are confident that women and men are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business. Blackstone’s approach to pay is gender neutral.

Our inclusive talent agenda

The gender pay reporting is giving us the opportunity to reflect on our talent programmes as we want to create an environment in which 
all our people can progress. We are proud of the initiatives we have in place to attract and support women and diverse talent in investment 
and other roles: 

Attracting talent through our Future Women  
Leaders’ Programme
•  Open to high-achieving female university students, giving them early 
exposure  to  finance  and  business  through  interactive  information 
seminars, networking, and critical skill-building sessions

Career development
•  Includes our new Talent curriculum and 360 degree performance 
reviews  and  provides  a  wide  range  of  professional  development 
opportunities to help employees advance their careers 

Inclusive recruitment
•  Ensures  we  have  a  diverse  shortlist  of  candidates  for  each  search, 
a  gender  diverse  interview  panel  and  reflects  our  commitment  to 
being an equal opportunity employer

Support through internal networks
•  Includes  Blackstone  Women’s  Initiative  and  Working  Parents 
Network  and  helps  recruit,  engage,  develop  and  support  diverse 
talent within Blackstone

Family-friendly total rewards and support
•  Includes a phased back to work programme for new mothers, flexible 
working, a back-up childcare benefit and support for working parents

Sharing our commitment externally
•  We are fortunate that our employees, both in the UK and globally, 
generously give their time in attending panels, networking events 
and campus-focused initiatives on diversity. This helps strengthen 
our message to the market and conveys our ongoing commitment 
to hiring and developing a diverse workforce

In  addition  to  the  activities  above,  we  are  pleased  to  be  launching  a  new  Women’s  Initiative  Mentoring  Circles  pilot,  to  facilitate  career 
development and networking at different levels, across the firm.

We  are  committed  to  long-term  change.  We  know  that  building  a  pipeline  of  talented  women  to  take  on  senior  roles  is  critical  to 
achieving equality.

Gerry Murphy

Chairman

The Blackstone Group International Partners LLP Gender Pay Gap Report 2017