Paradigm Trust Gender Pay Supporting Statement 

 

Paradigm  Trust  supports  the  fair  treatment,  reward  and  recognition  of  all  staff 
irrespective of gender.  Paradigm Trust is a Multi Academy Trust which, at the data 
capture  date  of  31  March  2017  had  3  primary  academies  in  East  London,  and  1 
primary  and  1  secondary  academy  in  Ipswich,  Suffolk.    A  significant  proportion  of 
the Trust’s employees transferred into the organisation under TUPE arrangements. 

Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 
and  as  an  employer  with  more  than  250  employees,  Paradigm  Trust  is  required  to 
measure  and  report  on  the  gender  pay  gap  within  the  organisation.    The  gender 
pay  gap  is  defined  as  the  difference  between  the  median  hourly  rate  of  pay 
between male and female employees. 

At  the  snapshot  date  of  31st  March  2017,  the  Trust  had  370  full  pay  relevant 
employees of which 63 (17%) were male and 307 (83%) were female.  Its workforce 
consists  of  leadership,  teaching  and  support  roles  which  are  paid  in  accordance 
with the relevant pay scales.  

1.  Mean Pay Gap 

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay that male and female full pay 
relevant employees receive is 12.4%.   

2.  Median Pay Gap  

The  difference  between  the  median  hourly  rate  of  pay  that  male  and  female  full 
pay relevant employees receive is 10.2%. 

3.  Mean Bonus Gap 

The difference between the mean bonus rate of pay that male and female relevant 
employees receive is 0%. This is because only 1 member of staff, a female, received 
a bonus within the relevant period. 

4.  Median Bonus Gap 

The  difference  between  the  median  bonus  rate  off  pay  that  male  and  female 
relevant employees receive is 0%. This is because only 1 member of staff, a female, 
received a bonus within the relevant period. 

5.  The proportion of males and females receiving a Bonus Payment  

During the 12-month period ending with the snapshot date 31st March 2017, 0% male 
and 0.3% of female relevant employees received a bonus payment. 

 

 

 

6.  The proportion of males and females in each Quartile Pay Band 

The percentage of men and women in each quartile is shown below: 

Lower quartile – 14% male and 86% female 

Middle lower quartile – 19.5% male and 80.5% female 

Middle upper quartile – 12% male and 88% female 

Upper quartile – 22% male and 78% female 

The  data  shows  that  Paradigm  Trust  has  a  much  higher  proportion  of  women  in  all 
quartiles, including the upper quartile. 

Narrative 

Whilst  Paradigm  Trust  employs  significantly  more  women  than  men  at  all  levels, 
which  is  not  unusual  for  the  sector  within  which  it  sits,  its  gender  pay  gap  at  10.2% 
(median  pay  gap)  is  higher  than  the  national  of  9.1%  (Office  for National Statistics, 
2017).  The Trust is committed to reducing the gap and aims to do so by: 

Taking  positive  action  as  appropriate,  and  raising  awareness  amongst 
recruiting  managers  of  the  role  of  positive  action  in  helping  to  reduce  the 
gender pay gap 

Continually  reviewing  our  recruitment  and  selection  practices,  as  well  as 
those around the promotion and development of staff 

Actively  encouraging  more  female  participants  onto  our  growing  future 
leaders programme 

As  part  of  our  rolling  review  of  employment  policies,  ensure  any  potential 
impact (either positive or negative) on the gender pay gap is fully considered 

Undertake  further  work  to  develop  our  evidence  base  to  help  inform  the 
above, and future, work to help the Trust to fulfil its commitment to reducing 
the gender pay gap.  

The Trust also commits to report on equality and diversity, to its Board on an annual 
basis. 

Supporting statement  

I can confirm that the above information has been prepared using Paradigm Trust’s 
payroll  data  from  the  snapshot  date  of  31st  March  2017  and  fairly  represents  the 
gender  pay  gap information.    This initial report  and its data provides a  baseline  for 
the Trust to compare to in future years to identify any trends and whether or not the 
actions identified above are having an impact. 

 

Bill Holledge 
Chief Executive Officer 
 

