Gender Pay Gap Report 

2017 

What is the gender pay gap? 

The  gender  pay  gap  measures  the  diﬀerence  between 

the  average  pay  of  men  and  women  across  all  roles 

within the organisa(cid:25)on.  It is a diﬀerent measurement to 

equal pay which focuses on comparing individual salaries 

that are paid to men and women who perform the same 

work.  At KLM UK Engineering we are conﬁdent that men 

and  women  are  paid  equally  for  doing  equivalent  jobs 

across our business. 

“Measuring our gender pay gap will allow us to iden(cid:19)fy what type of issues 

our organisa(cid:19)on faces and put in place plans which will help us to ensure that 

we can recruit, develop and retain the best talent.  This is crucial to our  

organisa(cid:19)on’s future success”. 

Jenni King, Head of Human Resources 

Our business proﬁle 

KLM  UK  Engineering  has  been  in  business  for  over  40  years  and  employs  370  people,  with  the  majority 

based at our facility at Norwich Airport.  Our business employs a range of qualiﬁed engineers, mechanics 

and  professional  support  staﬀ  to  deliver  a  high  quality  repair  and  maintenance  service  for  a  variety  of   

aircra- types across our 3 hangar facility and various line sta(cid:25)ons across the UK.  We also deliver on site 

technical training at our facility within the Interna(cid:25)onal Avia(cid:25)on Academy Norwich allowing individuals to 

become highly skilled in their chosen ﬁeld. 

We  have  a  long  serving  and  highly  skilled  employee  base  and,  like  many  other  businesses  within  the      

engineering sector, most of our roles are ﬁlled by men.  Although this is a historical posi(cid:25)on it can s(cid:25)ll be 

challenging  to  a/ract  a  high  percentage  of  women  through  the  science,  technology,  engineering  and 

mathema(cid:25)cs (STEM) routes and we need to ensure that we do all that we can to create an inclusive and 

diverse culture that welcomes talent across all genders. 

92%

8%

Understanding our gender pay gap 
In this report we look at several diﬀerent measurements of the pay gap; 

The  median  gender  pay  gap  -  this is the diﬀerence between the middle value of hourly pay rates for 

both men and women when ranked from highest to lowest.  The gap is expressed as a percentage. 

The  mean  gender  pay  gap  -  this  calculates  the  average  hourly  pay  rate  for  men  and  women  in  the      

organisa(cid:25)on.  The gap is expressed as a percentage. 

The  quar1le  pay  distribu1on -  this looks at the propor(cid:25)on of men and women in each 25% of our pay 

structure.  We have 91 employees in each of our quar(cid:25)les. 

Mean & Median Rates of Pay 

£16.75  Mean Hourly Rate  £12.66 

This gives us a mean gender pay gap of 24.4% 

£15.24  Median Hourly Rate  £11.86 

This gives us a median gender pay gap of 22.2% 

Bonus Payments 

The propor(cid:25)on of males who received a bonus payment was 0.3% (1 employee) vs 

0% of our female employees.  This means the gender pay gap for bonus    

payments was 100% in that period. 

Pay Quar1les 

This shows the percentage of males and females which sit in each pay quar(cid:25)le. 

Our Ac1on Plan 
It 

is  our  aim  to  ensure  that  all            

employees  have  access  to  the  same  

opportuni(cid:25)es  and  it  is  an  individual's 

level  of  performance  that  determines 

their  progress  within  the  organisa(cid:25)on.  

To support our work in this area we are 

delivering on the following ac(cid:25)ons. 

(cid:1)  We are commi6ed to recrui(cid:25)ng appren(cid:25)ces each year into our business to feed 

our  talent  pipeline.  To  support  this  we  are  working  with  local  schools  and 

colleges to speak to students of all ages and promote the core STEM subjects and 

inspire  more  young  women  to  explore  the  possibili(cid:25)es  of  a  career  in                

Engineering. 

(cid:1)  We  ac(cid:25)vely  support  a  policy  of  ﬂexible  and  agile  working.  We  understand  the  

importance of output and believe in crea(cid:25)ng an environment where we achieve 

a true balance between our family and work commitments. 

(cid:1)  We  are  commi/ed  to  the  learning  and  development  of  our  teams  and  are        

currently  reviewing  our  grading  structures  and  performance  management       

processes to ensure pathways for development are clear and accessible to all. 

(cid:1)  Our People Plan focuses on crea(cid:25)ng an inclusive, innova(cid:25)ve and diverse working     

environment  where  there  are  no  barriers  to  development.  Our  organisa(cid:25)onal 

success  depends  on  us  a6rac1ng,  retaining  and  engaging  talent  across  all        

genders and backgrounds. 

Declara1on Statement 
We conﬁrm that the data and informa(cid:25)on within this report is accurate as of the snapshot date of 5th 

April 2017. 

Peter van der Horst 

Jenni King 

Managing Director 

Head of Human Resources 

