ADM Milling Limited (UK)

Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

Introduction

2

as well as seven wheat flour mills located around the UK,
including a Technical Centre in Avonmouth near Bristol.

We are an equal opportunity employer, fully committed to
ensuring that our workplace is free from discrimination.
Our hiring, promotion and compensation decisions are not
influenced by race, ethnic or national origin, colour, sex,
pregnancy, maternity, breast feeding, marital status or
civil partnership, religion or belief, age, disability, sexual
orientation, gender reassignment, part-time or fixed-term
status, trade union activities, or other unlawful criteria.

Since April 2017, all organisations employing more than
250 people have been required to report annually on their
gender pay gap. The gender pay gap is a measure of the
difference between men and women’s average earnings.
This differs from equal pay, which means that men and
women in the same employment performing equal work
must receive equal pay, as set forth in the Equality Act of
2010. This is the first ADM Milling gender pay gap report,
and the data contained herein is based on a snapshot date
of 5 April 2017.

Archer Daniels Midland (“ADM”), one of
the world’s
largest agricultural processors and food ingredient
providers, established its UK Milling operation, ADM
Milling Ltd, in 1999. ADM Milling manufactures flour and
animal feed and has a head office in Chelmsford, Essex,

Our Results

3

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Pay Gap

Proportion of Men & Women 

Paid a Bonus

5.2%

1.3%

Our Results

4

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Population by Pay Quartiles

29.7

%

70.3

%

13.5

%

86.5 

%

This is calculated by organising the pay rates from the lowest
to the highest paid employees and splitting them into four
equal sized groups. These charts illustrate the percentages of
men and women in each quartile.

Female Male

Female Male

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

9%

91%

15.3 

%

84.7 

%

Female Male

Female Male

Female

Male

Underlying Causes of Gender Pay Gaps

5

ADM Milling’s pay gap is 11.9%, largely due to the fact that
we have more men in senior, higher-paying positions in
the business. Also, our operational
roles within
manufacturing and distribution including operators,
millers and truck drivers are typically performed by men
who have the capacity to earn additional pay, including
shift allowances, early start payments, night payments
and weekend premium payments.
In addition, very few
women apply for these roles, which further widens the pay
gap. The majority of our female employees are employed
in administrative roles, which offer fewer opportunities to
earn pay above a basic salary. Of the 75 females we
employ in the business, 25% work part-time. Currently,
none of our male employees work part time.

In addition, a significant proportion of ADM Milling’s
workforce is subject to collective bargaining agreements,
in which pay is determined through negotiations with
trade unions. For employees who are not governed by a
collective agreement, the company has an annual merit
review, in which pay increases are linked to performance
against objectives. We do not negotiate individual awards,
and our pay system takes no account of gender, or any
other protected characteristics.

Nearly 85 percent of ADM Milling’s workforce is male,
which means that, even when there is no difference in
gender pay on a role-by-role basis, a gender pay gap still
exists. The pay gap must therefore be considered in this
broader context.

Bonus Pay Gaps

6

Eligibility for bonus pay in ADM Milling is based both on
the seniority of the position (determined by job band), as
well as by the job “family” (commercial, operations or
support). These criteria are objectively established
regardless of gender.

The proportion of males versus females receiving bonus
pay is 5.2% (M) versus 1.3% (F). This gap results from the
fact that bonuses are restricted to senior roles with a
heavy focus on commercial positions. Within ADM Milling,
there are more men than women in senior commercial
roles. However, males and females in equivalent roles with
equivalent skills and experience are paid equally.

Objectives to assist with Gender pay:

7

ADM Milling is making progress to address imbalances
within the business, which has led to an increase in female
representation within the senior management group from
11% to 20% over the past 5 years. ADM’s strategy is to
continue increasing the number of women in senior
management positions by building up the skills and
experience of our middle managers, where we currently
have 30% female representation. We believe this
population will serve as a talent pipeline for senior roles in
the future.

Employees in the upper quartiles are more professionally
qualified compared to those in lower quartiles and the
upper quartile has the second largest population of
females across the four quartiles.

We remain committed to closing the pay gap with the help
of a regional diversity council that can provide advice and
counsel on diversity and inclusion. The regional council’s

a

candidate-attraction

strategy

focus is on gender

current
representation. We are
implementing
that
promotes diversity and equality to ensure the widest
possible pool of candidates. We also will look to graduate
traineeships and apprenticeships to help us build our
pipeline of women leaders. Moreover, we will build upon
the diversity training all ADM managers receive to help
remove any unconscious bias and to deliver appropriate
learning and development tools. These tools can ensure
we have suitably experienced candidates who may be
considered for promotion into senior roles.

I confirm that the information contained in this report is 
accurate.

Tim Cook, Managing Director

23rd March 2018

