 

Introduction 

At Hotelplan Ltd we have talented teams working overseas and at our Mountain 
House office in the UK for Inghams, Ski Total, Esprit and Santa’s Lapland.  

The following report shows the Gender Pay Gap at Hotelplan Ltd at the “snapshot 
date” of 5 April 2017.  

It shows the difference between the average earnings of men and women. It is 
important to note that ‘Gender Pay’ is different to ‘Equal Pay’, which deals with 
the  pay  difference  between  men  and  women  who  carry  out  the  same  jobs, 
similar  jobs  or  work  of  equal  value.  We  are  confident  that  we  pay  men  and 
women  the  same  for  carrying  out  the  same  roles,  and  will  of  course  always 
continue to do so. 

 

 ‘Our business reflects strong diversity 
through a positive mix of female and 
male talent. Moving forward we plan to 
close any gaps together by continuing 
to develop and support our teams in 
leadership and non-leadership roles.’ 

Paul Carter, CEO Hotelplan Ltd 

Our Gender Pay Gap Report for 2017 shows that we have a strong balance of women and men in senior and middle 
management positions, with the only imbalance at Board level.   

 

Understanding the Gender Pay Gap 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  

 

1.  Pay and Bonus Gap  

 

 

 

Hourly pay 

Bonus paid 

Mean 

19.9% 

61.10% 

Median 

-11.87% 

-10.87% 

 

 

 

 

 

    * A negative number means the gap favours women 

2.  Proportion of men and women awarded a bonus for 2016/2017 

 

1 | Hotelplan Limited Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

 

3.  Pay Quartiles 

 

LOWEST

LOWER MIDDLE

UPPER MIDDLE

HIGHEST

49%

51%

males

Females

53%

47%

males

Females

37%

63%

males

Females

51%

49%

males

Females

 

Our thoughts on the period 2016/17 

We have largely equal proportions of men and women across our business with the exception of the upper middle 
quartile, where in the last 16 months we have welcomed more women into Senior Management positions.  
 
The median gender pay gap shows in favour of women and the mean gap in favour of men.  This is largely 
attributable to the difference between a male board and predominately female senior management team. 
 
Men and women have the same opportunity to earn bonus payments in the UK and Overseas.  The data shows that 
our mean bonus payment favours men and our median bonus payment favours women. The bonus calculation does 
not account for the number of part time employees we employ, most of whom are women. We also have different 
bonus scheme payment dates for the UK and Overseas to reward seasonal work undertaken during and beyond the 
snapshot date for the previous year. 
  
More women than men were paid a bonus because we had a higher proportion of women than men in roles that met 
the eligibility criteria for performance related pay in the year to 5 April 2017.   
 
 
Moving Forward 

Where we have pay or bonus payment gaps, we are committed to closing any gaps in the following ways: 

  Continue being an inclusive and diverse Tour Operator, where women and men can achieve their full potential. 
  Developing a diverse Management team across all areas of the business and management levels. 
  Shaping our organisational design to fit our business for the future whilst continuing to develop a wide range 

of part-time and full-time roles. 

  Reviewing how to make our employment practices more family-friendly to support all working parents. 
  Positively ensuring our pay and reward practices are gender neutral. 
  Enhance our maternity/paternity/shared parental leave policies to support women and men returning to work 

more easily. 

  Continually developing and improving opportunities for progression and development across Hotelplan Ltd for 

employees of all genders and backgrounds. 
 

I confirm the data reported is accurate: 

 

Paul Carter 

Chief Executive Officer 

 

2 | Hotelplan Limited Gender Pay Gap Report 

