 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2016-17 
 
Introduction 
 
This report shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women across our workforce.  It is different 
to equal pay, which is the difference between men and women who do the same job and role in the workforce.  BDAT 
is an equal pay employer, subject to the requirements of TUPE transfers. 
 
The snapshot date for Bradford Diocesan Academies Trust (BDAT) was 5 April 2017.  The data required under The 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 is as follows:  
 

Average gender pay gap as a mean average between genders 
Average gender pay gap as a median average between genders 
Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average 
Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average 
Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of 
females receiving a bonus payment 
Proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered from highest to lowest pay 
Top Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Women are 23.17% lower 
Women are 44.04% lower 
NA 
NA 
No bonus payments made 

Female 68.5% 
Female 67.5% 
Female 79.7% 
Female 87.5% 

Male 31.5% 
Male 32.5% 
Male 20.3% 
Male 12.5% 

 
Gender Pay Gap Narrative 
 
While the apparent pay gap between men and women appears large, this is contextualised by the demographic of the 
employees in that 76.7% of the workforce is female, and that there is a substantial skew in lower salaried jobs which 
are historically and predominantly occupied by females. 
 
In primary schools the percentage of females to males is in the order of 88%:12%.  A significant number of the female 
posts are support posts which attract lower salaries.  Females and males are paid at the same rate for the same work 
on standard scales.  The fundamental reason therefore for the identified gender pay gap is the disparity in proportion 
between female and male in term-time only, part-time, lower paid roles in schools such as lunchtime supervisors and 
teaching assistants. 
 
BDAT is committed to ensuring that all staff receive equal pay for equal work regardless of gender. Teaching staff are 
remunerated on an incremental pay scale that rewards them for their professional performance, wider contribution to 
the School and their level of experience. Support staff pay is determined via a process of job evaluation and is 
regularly reviewed and benchmarked on a national and local basis to ensure that pay correctly reflects the value and 
complexity of the work undertaken. Male and female staff at BDAT are treated equally on appointment and 
throughout their careers at BDAT. 
 
Carol Dewhurst 
Chief Executive Officer and Accounting Officer 

 
 

