Princethorpe College Crescent School Crackley Hall Little Crackers Portals Support Us Princethorpe Schools Home About Princethorpe Daily Life Academic Sixth Form Admissions Outside Class Sport Facilities News Contact Us About Princethorpe Firefly needs a modern browser, so you may notice things look broken right now. To get a better experience, try one of the supported browsers listed here. Princethorpe College is a mixed 11-18 independent Catholic day school with around 900 students, 200 of whom are in the Sixth Form.  Christ’s teaching in the Gospels on love, service, forgiveness and generosity of spirit is central to the school’s character and approach to learning. Welcoming children of all denominations, we aim to provide a caring, stimulating environment in which children’s individual needs can be met and their talents, confidence and self esteem developed.  We aim to encourage a lifelong love of learning and an understanding of moral values, and to put young people on the road to happy and fulfilled lives.  A relatively young school, Princethorpe was established in 1966 by the Catholic Missionaries of the Sacred Heart, who moved their expanding boys’ boarding and day school, St Bede’s, from Leamington Spa to Princethorpe, taking over the former St Mary’s Priory, previously home to an order of Benedictine Nuns.  It is from the MSC’s founder, Jules Chevalier, and our college motto ‘Christus Regnet’. that we draw the continued inspiration for our community’s ethos.  "Ours is a spirit of family and a spirit of brotherhood formed by kindness and understanding by compromise and mutual forgiveness by gentleness, humility and simplicity by hospitality and a sense of humour."  Since the sixties the College has grown from 330 boys, many of whom boarded, to a fully co-educational Catholic independent day school.  In 2001 the school merged with St Joseph’s, a girls’ Catholic school in Kenilworth, to provide continuous education from nursery to Sixth Form. The school now forms part of The Princethorpe Foundation, a company limited by guarantee and a registered charity, which includes our junior school and nursery, Crackley Hall School and Little Crackers Nursery, which are based on the former St Joseph’s campus and the Crescent School, an independent junior school in Bilton, Rugby, which joined the Foundation. in September 2016.  Princethorpe is a HMC school ( Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference ) and a member of: the Society of Heads , the Independent Schools Association (ISA) and the Catholic Independent Schools’ Conference . Click here for the aims of the College.  ﻿﻿ Ed Hester, Headmaster Ed Hester took up the post of
Headmaster in September 2009. Educated at Brasenose College, Oxford, where he
read Engineering, Ed took his PGCE in Mathematics and was awarded a cricket
blue. He taught at Downside and Mount Saint Joseph’s, Bolton before being
appointed Head of Mathematics at St Christopher’s, Bahrain. In 2000 he moved to
Rugby School initially as Head of Mathematics, subsequently becoming Assistant
Head. Ed has three children, all of whom have been educated at Princethorpe. Ed Hester adds: "Princethorpe College prides itself on being a warm, kind and caring school as well as being disciplined and organised. It has an outstanding record of academic success by getting the best from its pupils . The school has an amazing history, beautiful buildings and grounds, and is made up of people who are incredibly friendly, bright and energetic.  ﻿﻿ We expect all our pupils to be smart, on time, courteous and civilised. We also want them to have the confidence to be themselves, to enjoy school and have a sense of fun." About Princethorpe Governance Inspection Reports Policies Comments Parents' Information Open Evening Wednesday 6 June 2018 6.00pm to 8.30pm Year 5 Taster Days May and June 2018 Request Prospectus Watch our video Support Us With Our Fundraising Initiatives The Princethorpe Foundation Old Princethorpians Princethorpe Enterprises Employment Opportunities Terms & Conditions Term Dates Policies Acknowledgements Princethorpe College, Princethorpe, Rugby CV23 9PX Telephone: 01926 634200 Email: post@princethorpe.co.uk The Princethorpe Foundation - Company Registered in England & Wales and Limited by Guarantee No. 4177718 - Registered Charity No. 1087124 Registered Office: Princethorpe College Rugby CV23 9PX. Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter