 
Royal Academy of Arts’ Gender Pay Gap Information 2017  

 

Reporting of statutory calculations as at 5 April 2017 
In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, and as an 
employer of more than 250 staff, the Royal Academy of Arts is required to publish statutory 
calculations on an annual basis relating to its gender pay gap, i.e. the difference in pay between the 
men and women employed by the RA. It should be noted that the Gender Pay Gap differs from 
‘equal pay’, which is the requirement that men and women in the same workplace be given equal 
pay for equal work. The RA is confident that it remunerates identically its male and female staff who 
fulfil equivalent roles. 

The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 require that we publish the 
following RA data as at 5 April 2017: 

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

 

Overall 

Lower 
Quartile 

Lower Middle 
Quartile 

Upper Middle 
Quartile 

Upper 
Quartile 

male 

35% 

female 

65% 

34% 

66% 

33% 

67% 

31% 

69% 

40% 

60% 

 
Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 

male 

92% 

female 

89% 

 

Gender pay gap in hourly rates of pay and in bonuses 

mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

mean bonus gender pay gap 

median bonus gender pay gap 

14% 

1% 

22% 

10% 

 

 
On 5 April 2017 (the government’s ‘snapshot date’ for capturing the gender pay data of businesses 
and charities), the RA employed 349 staff members, of whom 65% were female.   

Our analysis shows that we had a mean gender pay gap of 14% in hourly rates of pay, and of 10% in 
bonus pay. We are pleased to report that all eligible employees - permanent and fixed-term staff 
who had worked for the entirety of FY 2016/17 - received a bonus at the same percentage of 
earnings; bonus payments were pro-rated to those employees who joined the RA part-way through 
the financial year. 

Understanding the RA’s gender pay gap as of 5 April 2017 

•  Whilst the overall statistic is a 14% hourly gender pay gap, when examined in more detail 
the RA’s gender pay gap is quite different by quartile.  In the upper pay quartile, the mean 
gender pay gap is 20%, whereas there is much more even pay in the upper middle quartile (-
3%), lower middle quartile (3%) and lower quartile (-1%).  Whilst we are pleased with the 
even pay in the lower quartiles, we acknowledge the issue in the upper quartile. 

•  The analysis indicates that the upper quartile of our workforce was comprised of 60% female 

staff. While it is pleasing that the majority of our most senior roles are fulfilled by women, 
we need to act decisively to close the gender pay gap at this level.  

•  Although women outnumbered men in our upper quartile 

o 
o 

the very highest paid staff were men (top four by hourly pay) 
in general in this quartile, more of the men represented ‘specialist’ or accredited 
professions which command a higher salary premium, e.g. Finance, IT and Digital 
roles. 

•  The RA benefits from a loyal and long-serving staff – 44% of those captured on the snapshot 

date have over 5 years’ service and 52% of those have over 10 years’ service. Historic pay 
practices, such as the now-defunct process of individuals making a ‘business case’ to request 
an exceptional pay increase, may have favoured male employees, since men are shown to 
be more likely to ask for a salary increase than their female counterparts. Further, men are 
less likely to have taken leave or career breaks related to their dependants or to work part-
time, enabling them to have benefited from regular pay progression on account of their 
continuous, full-time service. 

•  We note that the pay gap in our upper middle (-3%) quartile favoured our female 

• 

employees. We are pleased to have a significant number of female managers in our upper 
middle quartile and will continue to support their career development and pay progression.  
In our lower quartile we had significantly more women than men occupying our ‘junior’, 
non-managerial roles, for example in administrative and support functions and front-of-
house operations. Since 2015 we have paid all staff in these roles the London Living Wage as 
a minimum and are therefore pleased to note the pay gap of -1% in favour of female staff at 
this level. 

Closing the gap 
Although our gender pay gap is smaller than the national average of 18% (reported by the 
Government Equalities Office and the CIPD), with a staff comprised of 65% females, we recognise 
that we need to do even better and must be proactive about closing our gender pay gap. In the 12 

 

 
months following 5 April 2017 we have begun to take decisive action and are committed to closing 
our gender pay gap by 2023, the end of our next Strategic Plan. The measures we have implemented 
since April 2017, and those we are committing to from 2018, to address our gender pay gap are set 
out below. 

Maternity and Shared Parental Leave 
What we have done since April 2017: 
Introduced enhanced company maternity and shared parental pay, ensuring that our loyal female 
staff are well remunerated during their maternity leave, and that female and male staff have the 
opportunity to share financially advantageous parental leave with their partner. These enhanced 
arrangements demonstrate our commitment to the financial wellbeing of all our working parents 
and we encourage them to return to work at the RA at the end of their maternity or shared parental 
leave. 

What we plan to do from April 2018: 
Improve communication of both the RA’s Shared Parental Leave and Parental Leave policies to 
encourage greater take-up of parental leave arrangements by staff from across, and at all levels of, 
the organisation. Potentially ask employees who have previously enjoyed such an arrangement to 
share the personal and professional benefits with their colleagues. 

Flexible Working 
What we have done since April 2017: 
Reviewed the RA’s Flexible Working Policy and rolled out agile working practices, making it easier for 
staff at all levels of the organisation to work flexibly and balance their role with their home and 
family life. We are proud to offer our staff opportunities to work part-time and flexibly. The majority 
of those working part-time as at 5 April 2017 were female, with 17% of them from the upper 
quartile. 

What we plan to do from April 2018: 
Be more demonstrative of the fact that the RA supports flexible working for all staff, not just those 
with young families or other caring responsibilities, communicating this to current staff, as well as to 
prospective employees in recruitment materials. 

Pay and Bonuses 
What we have done since April 2017: 
Updated our annual pay review process and introduced a fairer, more transparent system for 
requesting and awarding pay increases during the financial year. Communicated the new process to 
all permanent staff via a number of channels. 

What we plan to do from April 2018: 
Introduce an annual gender pay audit to identify any gender bias in the requests and 
recommendations for exceptional pay increases. Ensure that managers who propose pay increases 
for their direct reports can support and justify their proposals with a clear rationale. 

Obtain accreditation as a Living Wage Employer and recognition for our commitment to paying all RA 
staff the London Living Wage as a minimum and implementing its annual increase.  

 

 
Performance Management 
What we have done since April 2017: 
Introduced a less formal, more regular and interactive performance management process, with a 
renewed focus on career aspirations and development planning. The updated ‘check-in’ process 
enables all our employees to discuss their career trajectory with their line manager on a bi-annual 
basis as a minimum, and to identify and request development opportunities to help them realise 
their career goals. 

What we plan to do from April 2018: 
Audit appraisal check-in records by gender. Make line managers more accountable for the quality 
and completion of check-in records, and for ensuring that all their direct reports have a ‘live’ 
development plan and are offered training and development opportunities. 
Explore and introduce new development opportunities, such as mentoring, secondments to peer 
organisations and job rotations within the RA, particularly for female staff who have been identified 
as having high/leadership potential. 

Gender Diversity at the RA 
We recognise that gender diversity is a key strength, and needs to start from the top.  At time of 
writing our Executive team is 44% female and Council (the RA’s governing body) is 35% female.   

Of the 43 Royal Academicians (RAs) elected since 2008, 44% have been female.  Amongst their 
number is the new Keeper of the Royal Academy Schools, Rebeca Salter RA.  Of all our RAs, including 
Seniors, 29% are female, and of 32 current Honorary Academicians, 22% are women. 4 female RAs 
are Professors in the RA Schools, whose student body has had a 50:50 gender split for the last 
decade. 

A solo exhibition by Tacita Dean is launching our new Gabrielle Jungels-Winkler galleries opening in 
May 2018. 

Next steps 
We intend to report again on the Gender Pay Gap during the spring of 2018, at which time we will 
document the additional action we have taken and the further commitments we are making to 
continue to close, and ultimately eliminate, our gender pay gap. 

 

