 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT  

September 2017 

 

Appendix 1     

www.portsmouth.gov.uk 

 

 

 

3 

4 
 

5 

6 

8 

8 

8 

8 

9 

9 

9 

10 

10 

10 

10 

  11 

  12 

 

Contents 

 

Background 

Methodology 

Scope 

Definitions 

Workforce Profile 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

Mean and Median Pay Gap Summary 

Mean Bonus Gap 

Median Bonus Gap 

Bonus Proportions 

Bonus Pay Gap Summary 

Quartile Pay Bands 

Quartile Pay Band Summary 

Conclusions 

Action Plan   

 

 

 

 

Timescales for implementing action plan 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Background 

The Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations require all employers with 250 or more 
employees to report their Gender Pay Gap annually, publishing on a national Government 
website as well as the organisations website. The Gender Pay Gap Information 
Regulations apply to employers in the Public and Private sector. 
 
In addition to these new regulations, employers in the public sector are subject to a 
specific public sector equality duty in respect of their functions - The Equality Act 2010 
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017.  
 
The regulations apply to all employers with 250 or more employees on the "snapshot" 
date. The "snapshot" date for the public sector is 31st March each year. Therefore, the 
authority is required to publish its gender pay gap for each year on the Portsmouth City 
Council (PCC) website and on a Government website, no later than 31st March of the 
following year. So for the snapshot date of March 2017, the findings must be published no 
later than 30th March 2018. 
 
The purpose of Gender Pay Gap reporting is to achieve greater gender equality across the 
UK and increase pay transparency. It has been estimated that the under-utilisation of 
women's skills costs the UK economy 1.3 - 2% of GDP annually, and that eradicating the 
full-time gender pay gap would contribute additional spending into the economy of £41b 
each year.  
 
In 2016 the national gender pay gap for full-time employees was 9.4%, meaning that 
average pay for full-time female employees was 9.4% lower than for full-time male 
employees. The gap was down from 17.4% in 1997. The gap for all employees, full and 
part-time was 18.1% down from 27.5% in 1997. 
 
The Government considers that this rate of progress is too slow, and has committed to 
closing the gender pay gap within a generation. 
 
PCC is committed to the principle of equal pay for all employees by ensuring that it meets 
the requirements of the Equality Act. To achieve this PCC uses a job evaluation system 
scheme (JESS) to assess the value of all jobs across the organisation, which provides 
evidence in support of the banding of each job within our grading structure. Salaries are 
paid according to band and incremental annual progression within the band occurs 
irrespective of employee's gender.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sources:  CIPD Gender Pay Gap Reporting Guide March 2017 
 
 

    ONS  

 

 

3 

 

Methodology  

The Regulations clearly define the methodology for the Gender Pay Gap calculations and 
reporting guidelines. 
 
The regulations require employers to publish the following information: 
 

  The mean gender pay gap; 
  The median gender pay gap; 
  The mean bonus pay gap; 
  The median bonus pay gap; 
  And the relative proportions of male and female employees in each quartile pay 

band.  

The Regulations detail how to carry out the calculations and these are based on how the 
ONS undertakes their calculations to allow for comparisons to be made nationally against 
the data.  
 
All public sector organisations are required to publish their first reports no later than 30th 
March 2018. 
 
The report will be based on hourly pay rates as at 31 March 2017 and on bonuses paid 
between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017. 
 
 
 

 

 

4 

 

Scope 

The regulations create two categories of people who have to be taken into account in the 
gender pay gap reporting: relevant employees and relevant full-pay employees.  
 
For the purposes of gender pay gap reporting, the definition of an employee is that which 
is given in the Equality Act 2010. This is an extended definition which includes: 
 

  Employees (those with a contract of employment) 
  Workers with a contract to do work or provide services for your organisation 
  Some self-employed people who have to personally carry out the work they do for 

you.   

The gender pay gap calculation is based on the number of individual employees and not 
the full-time equivalent. This means that each part-time employee counts as one 
employee.  
 
Apprentices, seasonal, temporary or casual employees and zero hours workers are 
included if they fall within the reference period created by the snapshot date.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

5 

 

Definitions 
 
Gender Pay Gap  
The gender pay gap is a measure of labour market or workplace disadvantage, expressed 
in terms of a comparison between males and females average hourly rates of pay. The 
gap can be measured in various ways and it is important to understand how the gap is 
being measured. The hourly rates of pay, excluding overtime are used to take account of 
the fact that many more males than females work full-time. Overtime is excluded because 
it is recognised that male employees work more overtime than female employees due to 
female's caring responsibility and part-time nature of work.  
 
Equal Pay 
Equal pay means that there should be no difference in the contractual terms of a female 
and a male doing equal work, who both work for the same employer. For further details 
please refer to the Equality Act 2010. 
 
The difference between Gender Pay Gap and Equal Pay 
The most important difference between equal pay and the gender pay gap is that, equal 
pay requires one to scrutinise information at the level of the individual employee (to satisfy 
that there is equal pay for equal work). Gender pay gap reporting asks you to examine 
aggregate data.   
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap 
The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant employees 
and that of female full-pay relevant employees.  
 
To calculate the mean 
The mean is an average of all the numbers in a dataset, that is you have to add up all the 
numbers and then divide the result by how many numbers you are dealing with. To find the 
mean hourly rate for PCC's full-pay relevant male employees, all the hourly rates will be 
added together and then divided by the total number of full-pay relevant male employees. 
This will give the "mean" hourly rate. 
 
Median Gender Pay Gap 
The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant employees 
and that for female full-pay relevant employees.  
 
To calculate the median 
The median is the numerical value which splits the top 50% and the bottom 50%. To find 
the median, all the hourly rates for all employees will be listed in numerical order; if there 
are an odd number of values, the median is the number in the middle. If there is an even 
number, the median is the mean of the two central numbers. 
 
Bonus 
Bonus pay means any remuneration that is in the form of money, vouchers, securities, 
securities options or interests in securities and relates to profit sharing, productivity, 
performance, incentive or commission. Non-consolidated bonuses are included. Long 
service awards with a monetary value are also included. 
 
For PCC, this captures Long Service Awards and one-off honoraria payments.  Regular 
honoraria payments are excluded from "bonus" calculations and included in "ordinary pay". 
 

 

6 

 

Mean Bonus Gap 
The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and that 
paid to female relevant employees.  
 
Median Bonus Gap 
The difference between the median bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and that 
paid to female relevant employees.  
 
Bonus Proportions 
The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay during 
the relevant period.  
 
Quartile Pay Bands 
The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the lower, lower middle, 
upper middle and upper quartile pay bands.  
 
Quartiles 
A quartile is one of the three points that divide the population of data into 4 equal parts. In 
the context of gender pay gap reporting, the four quartile pay bands are created by 
dividing the total number of full-pay relevant employee into four equal parts. For 
clarification, that is not PCC Pay bands.   
 
Measures 
A positive measure, for example 18%, indicates the extent to which females earn, on 
average, less per hour than their male counterparts.  
 
A negative measure, for example -18%, indicates the extent to which females earn, on 
average, more per hour than their male counterparts. This may happen, for example, if 
PCC employ a high proportion of males in low-paid part-time work, and/or the senior and 
higher paid employees are female. 
 
 

 

 

7 

 

The Workforce Profile 
 

The Gender Pay Gap data supplied is correct for all staff, including school staff, in post 
with Portsmouth City Council on 31st March 2017 who earned their full-pay (relevant 
employees). At that time, there were 5873 relevant full pay employees, which is made up 
by 4377 females (75%) and 1496 (25%) males. 
 
Out of the 5873 relevant employees, 36 are covered by TUPE regulations (21 are male 
and 7 are female). 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap 
 

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay for male full-pay relevant employees 
and that of female full-pay relevant employees is 11%.  
 

The  average  mean  hourly  rate  of  pay  for  a  male  was  £16.84.  For  a  female  the  average 
mean  hourly  rate  of  pay  was  £14.93,  which  results  in  the  11%  difference  in  the  mean 
figure reported above. 
 

Median Gender Pay Gap 
 
The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant employees 
and that of female full-pay relevant employees is 15%. 
 
The average median hourly rate for a male was £14.19. For a female the average median 
hourly  rate  was  £12.00.  This  result  is  a  15%  difference  in  the  median  figure  reported 
above. 
 

Mean and Median Pay Gap summary 
 
PCC's median and mean gender pay gap compares with the national figure from the ONS 
where the average gap for all employees, part-time and full-time is 18.1% based on data 
from 2016.  
 
In addition to a job evaluation scheme, PCC has a clear policy of paying employees 
equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their gender. As such, the council: 

  carries out equal pay audits at regular intervals; 

  provides regular job evaluation training for employees involved in undertaking job 

evaluation; and 

  evaluates job roles and pay bands as necessary to ensure a fair structure 

The council is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying male 
and female employees differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay 
gap is the result of the roles in which male and females work within the council and the 
salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, males are more likely than females to be in senior 
roles (especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while females are more 
likely than men to be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In addition, 

 

8 

 

men are more likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates of 
pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority.  

Female are also more likely than males to have had breaks from work that have affected 
their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to 
work part time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis 
are relatively low paid. 
 
The gender pay gap exists within PCC as the majority (75%) of the workforce is female 
and predominantly a large proportion of these are employed in the lower quartile pay 
bands, with fewer employed at the more senior levels.  
 
PCC's gender pay gap is lower than the national average and this is down to a number of 
factors that already exist within the council: 
 

  The introduction of a PCC Living Wage Rate of £7.85 per hour, in November 2014, 

is paid to all employees at the lower level of the pay structure, taking employees out 
of working poverty.  

  PCC promotes and supports a number of flexible working policies for all employees 

within the organisation, irrespective of gender. These include job share, part time 
working and, term time working. In some areas there is also a flexibility to work from 
different locations. 

  Robust equal opportunities and diversity policies ensure that all employees are 

treated fairly and equally and a clear escalation process if an individual feels they 
are being treated unfairly. 

  The JESS Job evaluation scheme ensures that all jobs are evaluated to ensure 

equal pay for equal work across the entire authority. For example, a female support 
worker or female manager will be paid the same pay band as her male counterpart. 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap 
 

The  difference  between  the  mean  bonus  pay  paid  to  male  relevant  employees  and  that 
paid to female relevant employees is 48%. 
 

Median Bonus Pay Gap 
 
The difference between the median bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and that 
paid to female relevant employees is 63%. 
 

Bonus Proportions 
 
The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay during 
the relevant period in the 12 months up to 31st March was 64 males (4%) out of a total of 
1,722 males and 162 females (3%) out of a total of 5,052 females. This shows that whilst 
there is a similar proportion of overall male and females  who received a bonus payment, 
the  amounts  received  by  male  employees  is  higher  than  that  received  by  female 
employees.  
 
 

 

9 

 

Bonus pay gap summary 
 
The  mean  gender  bonus  gap  and  the  median  gender  bonus  gap  for  the  council  are 
relatively  large  at  48%  and  63%.  However,  when  looked  at  in  terms  of  cash  amounts 
rather  than  percentage  terms,  the  figures  involved  are  comparatively  small,  the  highest 
amount  being  £4,924  (paid  to  a  female)  to  the  smallest  amount  of  £42  (also  paid  to  a 
female). In comparison that highest amount paid to male employees was £3,766 and the 
smallest amount paid to male employees was £57. 
 
Some honoraria payments made within PCC are used to reward outstanding contributions 
and the definition of "bonus" for this report captures these types of payments. As such this 
can  skew  the  data  and  creates  inconsistencies  in  reporting.  Further  work  is  needed  to 
ensure that recording of this data is accurate in the future. 
 

Quartile Pay Bands 
 

The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the lower, lower middle, 
upper middle and upper quartile pay bands are set out in the table below. 
 
 

Female %  Total % 

Male % 

Total 

Number 
of males 
480 

Number 
of females 
987 

400 

20% 

327 

1142 

289 

1179 

1069 

80% 

100 

67% 

73% 

33% 

27% 

100 

100 

1469 

1468 

1469 

1467 

Upper 
Quartile 
Upper 
Middle 
Quartile 
Lower 
Middle 
Quartile 
Lower 
Quartile 
The totals differ slightly to accommodate the same hourly rate distribution across the divides. 
 
Quartile Pay Band Summary 
 
In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of male 
to female in each quartile. However, within the Council, 78% of the employees in the lower 
quartile are female and 22% are male. The percentage of male employees increases 
throughout almost all the remaining quartiles, from 20% in the lower middle quartile to 33% 
in the upper quartile. In direct comparison the percentage of female employees decreases 
throughout almost all of the remaining quartiles from 80% in the lower middle quartile to 
67% in the upper quartile. 
 
Conclusions 
 

22% 

78% 

100 

While the Council's gender pay gap compares favourably with that across the whole UK 
economy, it is committed to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap. However, the 
Council also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, 
no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices 
that they make.  Individuals make choices about their work/life balance and one of the 
trends identified by Gender Pay Gap analysis is that female's pay reduces at a certain age 

 

10 

 

due to caring responsibilities for dependants.  This is the norm for our culture. However, 
Portsmouth City Council ensures that individuals are able to make these choices without 
suffering discrimination with its various flexible working policies and culture.  
 
The Gender Pay Gap for the "mean" and "median" categories fall below that of the 
national average.   
 
There is currently no benchmarking data in relation to bonus payments from ONS that will 
correlate directly with the calculation method defined by the Gender Pay Gap Information 
Regulations.  Therefore, we do not know how the percentage for bonus payments will 
compare with the national average or sector trends.  Once this data is published it will be 
interesting to see how PCC compares to the national average and other authorities. In the 
meantime, this needs to be considered further to ensure that accurate recording can 
identify payments that fall into the definition of "bonus" so that future reporting is accurate.   
 

Action Plan/Recommendations 
 

1.  To increase Managers awareness of 'unconscious bias's during recruitment and 

interview processes. 

2.  Review the recruitment process and consider if it is appropriate to revise the 

process to anonymise the candidate's gender, age or ethnicity for the shortlisting 
process. This would enable a completely unbiased approach to considering 
candidates. 

3.  Increase awareness around apprenticeship schemes to encourage more 

employees to improve their skills and experience giving them the opportunity to 
progress their career. 

4.  Promote the benefits of flexible working practices to employees and Managers 

(research conducted by Hays 'What workers want', showed that many employees 
(65%) who were looking for new opportunities stated that flexible working was the 
single most important factor for them). In addition the Council will monitor the take-
up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation. 

5.  Promote existing career management tools and monitor progress. 
6.  Promote the benefits of working for PPC, such as Apprenticeship opportunities, 

flexible working arrangements, diversity commitments, etc. 

7.  Develop a greater evidence base and widen the data collection to determine trends 

for the proportion of men and women who return to work after maternity, paternity, 
adoption or shared parental leave to resume substantive posts and those that 
continue in post a year after returning. 

8.  Based on the data collected in 7 above, encourage managers to consider job 

redesign if there are aspects of a job that prevents or stops employees applying for 
them on a part-time or flexible basis. 

9.  Monitor exit interview data and identify any trends to understand if one gender is 

leaving for common reasons compared to the other.  

10. Develop a process to monitor starting pay both on recruitment and promotion for 

men and women to assess whether there are differences on starting pay as this can 
be one of the most common causes of the gender pay gap. This will be particularly 
beneficial in areas where there are skills shortages.  

 

11 

 

11. Continue to monitor the allocation of additional payments that are made at 

managers' discretion to ensure that this is not contributing to the gender pay gap or 
unequal pay and address any anomalies as appropriate.  

12. Monitor current pay systems and address any systematic issues so as to not cause 

any distortion of the data. 

Timescales of achieving the action plan 
 
The action plan will be implemented over the next 12 months and reviewed on an ongoing 
basis, and annually in comparison with the published results of the Gender Pay Gap 
report, each March.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

12 

 

 

 

Telephone: 023 9284 1967 
 
Email: rachel.richardson@portsmouthcc.gov.uk 

www.portsmouth.gov.uk 

 

