 
 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT - 2017 

 

 

 

 
Under  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017,  any  UK  organisation 
employing more than 250 employees has to report its gender pay gap.  The report comprises six different 
metrics and a narrative to explain the organisation’s gender pay gap position:  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

the mean gender pay gap 
the median gender pay gap 
the mean gender bonus gap  
the median gender bonus gap 
the proportion of men to women that received bonuses 
the number of men and women according to quartile pay bands 
 

The  gender  pay  gap  shows  the  difference  in  average  earnings  between  all  men  and  women  within  an 
organisation.   
 
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees. 
 
The  median  gender  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  median  hourly  rate  of  male  full-pay  relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees. 
 
The mean gender bonus gap is the difference between the mean bonus payments of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees. 
 
The  median  gender  bonus  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  median  bonus  payments  of  male  full-pay 
relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees. 
 
The quartile bands are calculated by ranking all full-pay relevant employees in ascending order of hourly 
pay  and  dividing  the  workforce  equally  into  quartiles.    The  numbers  of  male  and  female  employees  are 
recorded in each quartile. 
 
Our  initial  snapshot  date  was  5  April  2017  at  which  time  our  full-pay  relevant  employees  comprised  148 
women and 120 men. 
 
 

 

Table 1 – Gender Pay Gap Differences 

Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap 
Mean gender bonus gap 
Median gender bonus gap 

15.6% 
11.3% 

0% 
0% 

 
This highlights that on average, women are paid 15.6% less than their male colleagues.  The 11.3% median 
average  indicates  the  mean  difference  is  reasonably  consistent  throughout  the  workforce  but  recognises 
that there are larger differences at the higher and lower end of earnings. 
 
 

 

 
 

Table 2 – Proportion of Bonus Payments 

Men 

Women 

0% 
0% 

 

 

Table 3 – Number and Proportion of Male and Female staff in each Quartile 

 

 

No of 
males 

No of 

females 

Upper quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Lower quartile 
Total 

41 
22 
35 
22 
120 

26 
45 
32 
45 
148 

Male 

Female 

% 
61 
33 
52 
33 

 

% 
39 
67 
48 
67 

 

 
 
Why does Concord College have a gender pay gap? 
 
The College adopts the policy of equal pay in that men and women are paid  equally for completing work 
of  equal  value  to  the  College.    The  reason  behind  the  gender  pay  gap  stems  from  the  disproportionate 
gender split within each quartile.   
 
How is Concord College addressing the gender pay gap challenge? 
 
The College is committed to reducing its gender pay gap and continues to look closely at recruitment and 
retention  strategies  to  attract  as  wide  an  application  base  as  possible  and  encourage  professional 
development with the specific aim of balancing the workforce.  
 
I confirm that to the best of my knowledge, the data included in this report is accurate and in line with 
the reporting requirements. 
 
Barbara M Belfield-Dean 
 
B M Belfield-Dean 
Bursar 
22 March 2018 
 

