 
Introduction: 

 

•  Under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 which came into 

force in April 2017 we are required to report yearly on our gender pay information as we employ 
more than 250 people.  The information below outlines our gender pay information as required 
by the regulations.  This information will be updated and disclosed annually by Genus Breeding 
Limited (”Genus Breeding”). 

•  Gender pay looks at the differences in reward between all men and women within the business.   

•  Key statistics are reported (as required under the Equality Act).  These identify any gap between 
men and women, based on average and median earnings.  Gender pay is different to equal pay, 
which looks at any differences in pay between individual men and women carrying out the same 
or similar jobs.   

•  Genus Breeding is a subsidiary of Genus plc, a global leader in bovine and porcine genetic 

improvement. 

•  Genus Breeding is committed to developing people’s careers successfully regardless of their 

gender.  We support the development of individuals through the business in line with our core 
values.  These values define and shape the way we operate in our roles each day and the way we 
serve customers. 

Headline Data/Findings: 

  Our headline analysis of median and mean gender pay (based on hourly rates of pay at 5 
April 2017) is shown below.  The mean gap is the amount by which the average pay of all 
men exceeds the average pay of all women.  The median gap is the amount by which the pay 
in the middle of the ranking of all pay for men exceeds the same middle rank number for 
women.   
 
 

Hourly Pay- April 2017 
Bonus Pay- April 2017 

 

Mean 
19.4% 
64% 

Median 
12.2% 
81% 

  The proportion of males / females in each quartile pay band is as follows: 

  The proportion of employees receiving bonus pay (as defined by the Equality Act) in the 12 

months to 5 April 2017 was:  Men 87%, Women 65%. 

 

 
Our Insight into the data & findings 

 

  Our gender pay position is influenced by the fact that Genus Breeding has a higher 

proportion of men than women employed and that the jobs they tend to do are different: 
just under 77% of employees of Genus Breeding are men, which is consistent with our 
sector.  Relatively more women are employed in office-based roles, while relatively more 
men are in field-based roles.  The pay gap highlighted reflects the distribution and structure 
of the roles in which people are employed.   

  Genus Breeding has a small number of dedicated roles (such as artificial insemination or 

reproductive management service technicians) in which we employ a significant number of 
people.  Within these key roles we see very low/nil differentials in pay between gender.  
Where the data highlights gaps this is reflective of the employee’s time spent in role and 
experience. 

  Genus Breeding’s bonus & commission schemes are gender neutral and determined only by 
the type of role.  Some roles attract commission, some have eligibility for our annual bonus 
scheme, and some are not eligible for any form of variable pay.  

  Pay data, in accordance with the Equality Act, includes base pay and any commission or 

bonus payments made in April 2017.  As our sales force is made up of proportionately more 
men than women, the bonus pay findings reflect commission payments made to those in 
sales based roles.   

 

 

In Genus Breeding a higher proportion of women work flexibly e.g. on a part-time basis, 
compared to men.  Therefore the data reflects pro-rated salary and bonus/commission 
received by these individuals.  Genus Breeding is committed to supporting the choice of any 
employee to work flexibly. 

In recent years we have seen a higher proportion of women join the business and we believe 
that over time any differences between male and female pay will reduce, reflective of the 
changing overall demographic mix within the business. 

 

I, Andrew Thompson, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

 

Signed:                                                                          Date:   19 March 2018 

 
 
 
Andrew Thompson 
Genus Breeding Limited 

