Roche’s Gender Pay Gap Statement

Roche – Who we are

F Hoffman-La Roche Limited is the world’s largest biotech company and a global 
pioneer in pharmaceuticals and diagnostics focused on advancing science to improve 
people’s lives.
We have extraordinary people making all this happen. In the UK we employ more than 
2,000 people of over 40 different nationalities. Diversity, inclusion and collaboration are  
in our DNA, which has been recognised in our UK Top Employer certification. 
Roche’s commitment to diversity and inclusion means that we value each person  
and the innovation that comes from leveraging different thinking and capabilities.  
We actively work to create an environment where everybody has the ability to  
share new ideas, collaborate to find the best solutions, and realise their potential. 
This includes, but is by no means limited to, corporate goals to increase the number 
of senior leaders who are women and striving for gender – and experience – diverse 
candidate pools when recruiting.

Gender Equality at Roche
This report is part of a new, and welcome, initiative by the Government which requires 
companies employing over 250 people in the UK to publish data showing their gender 
pay gap.

At Roche we are fully committed to being inclusive and it is our view that 
by harnessing these differences, we can create a working environment that 
promotes innovative thinking and passion in all that we do.

Roche1 Gender Pay Gap – A Summary
We are pleased to report that our hourly-rate pay gaps are less 
than the national average. Our Roche median gender pay gap is 5.96% 
in comparison to the national average of 18.4%* and our Roche mean 
gender pay gap is 10.30% in comparison to the national average mean 
pay gap of 17.4%*.

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap is an equality 
measure that shows the difference in 
average earnings between women and 
men (taking into account applicable pay 
and bonuses).
Equal pay is different, this is the long 
standing principle that men and women in 
the UK are legally entitled to receive equal 
pay if they are performing equal work.

Roche mean  

gender pay gap 10.30%

National average 17.4%*

Roche median  

gender pay gap 5.96%
National average 18.4%*

What are mean and median?
Mean is the average, so any applicable pay/bonuses added together, and divided by the number of employees. 
Median is the mid-point between the highest and lowest applicable pay or bonuses.

Proportion of males and 

females in the upper 
middle pay quartile

Proportion of males  
and females in the  
upper pay quartile

Proportion of males  
and females receiving  

a bonus payment

61.31% 38.69%

55.39% 44.61%

93.79% 91.26%

KEY

Female

Male

What are quartiles?
Quartiles show the gender distribution across the overall pay range. They are calculated by dividing the pay range into 
four equally sized groups covering all employees and calculating the percentage of men and women in each group. 

1All data has been compiled and reported on in accordance with statutory requirements for the two Roche legal entities that are subject to these regulations.
*Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings from the Office of National Statistics (provisional results published November 2017)

2

Roche’s Gender Pay Gap StatementOur Gender Pay Gap
Roche fully endorses the need to eliminate the gender pay gap within the workplace 
and recognises the important part that employers have to play in increasing pay 
transparency. We are proud of our Roche figures, we have a good gender balance 
at all levels of the organisation...

55%  

of our highest 
paid employees 
are female.

More  
than 90%  
of our total 
employees  
received a bonus... 

...and of 
these,  
slightly more women 
than men were in receipt 
of a bonus payment. 

Looking forward: 2018 and beyond
Whilst recognising that this is a long-term objective that we can all play our part in, 
Roche is actively committed to making progress and improving gender equality within 
our business even further in the future. We will be holding discussions and proposing a 
number of further initiatives in the coming months in order to work towards achieving 
our aim.
Our approach to business is underpinned by our belief that all individuals should 
be treated fairly and have access to equal opportunities regardless of their status. 
We continually seek to promote equality by welcoming diversity, removing barriers, 
eliminating discrimination, ensuring inclusion, equal opportunity and access for all groups  
of people. Equality for all of our workforce is a key ambition for our business.
We have already assigned dedicated resource to undertake further analysis of the statistical 
gender pay information collated. We recently held a bespoke workshop for members of our 
local HR teams. This was an opportunity to share our gender equality and pay knowledge, 
raise awareness of all of the different work going on throughout our business and agree 
future initiatives that we will focus on in the coming months, as we work towards achieving 
greater gender equality within our business.

3

Roche’s Gender Pay Gap StatementStatutory disclosures
Roche has two legal entities in the UK which meet the criteria for mandatory publication 
set out in the gender pay gap regulations (over 250 UK employees). Accordingly, we set 
out below the required statutory disclosures for these two companies.

Roche Products Limited

Breakdown of pay quartiles by gender (%)

Upper  
quartile

Upper middle 

Lower middle 

quartile

quartile

Lower 
quartile

43

57

34

66

34

66

26

74

Roche Diagnostics Limited

Breakdown of pay quartiles by gender (%)

Upper  
quartile

Upper middle 

Lower middle 

quartile

quartile

38

62

57

43

39

61

Lower 
quartile

39

61

Proportion of men and women  

receiving a bonus payment

Gender pay gap

Mean
Median

11.99%
10.57%

95.82%

93.91%

Gender bonus gap

Mean
Median

25.02%
25.54%

Proportion of men and women  

receiving a bonus payment

Gender pay gap

Mean
Median

14.62%
5.61%

84.40%

86.06%

Gender bonus gap

Mean
Median

19.29%
7.36%

KEY

Female

Male

We confirm that the content of this report is true to the best of our knowledge and belief. 

Richard Erwin 
General Manager 

Roche Products Limited

Geoff Twist 

General Manager 

Roche Diagnostics Limited

Roche’s Gender Pay Gap Statement

4

