Gender Pay 
Gap Report
2016/17

Introduction

In 2018, for the first time, UK companies with over 250 employees are required to report on 
their gender pay gap. The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay of all the 
men in the organisation against the average pay of all the women.  It is different to equal pay 
comparison, which examines whether men and women are given equal pay for equal work.  

At CarShop, our aim is to attract more female 
employees to our business and encourage 
them to build a career with us. The motor 
industry is changing and we need attract and 
retain a more diverse workforce that is aligned 
with the diversity we see in our customer base. 
We have some great female role models within 
our business, however we appreciate that we 
need to increase the number of women who 
choose to build a career with CarShop. 

Gender Pay Gap

Historically, the automotive industry has 
been male dominated so it is no surprise 
that CarShop’s mean gender pay gap at 
20.4% is slightly ahead of the UK average of 
18.4%.  Traditionally male roles, such as sales, 

We are committed to promoting a diverse 
workforce and ensuring that all colleagues have 
the ability to be treated equally, thus ensuring 
colleagues have equal opportunity in: selection, 
promotion, transfer, development, reviews, 
training, coaching and benefits regardless of 
their protected characteristics.  

technician and body shop roles make up 59% 
of CarShop’s workforce and these roles tend to 
attract higher average salaries when compared 
to other roles.  

Mean Gender 
Pay Gap

20.4%

Median Gender 
Pay Gap

13.9%

Gender Bonus Gap

Mean Bonus 
Gender Pay Gap

50.4%

Proportion of Males 
Receiving a Bonus 
Payment

73.0%

Median Bonus 
Gender Pay Gap

56.2%

Proportion of Females 
Receiving a Bonus 
Payment

41.6%

The mean bonus gap at 50.4% is reflective of the fact that the roles that attract the highest bonuses 
(i.e. Heads of Business, Retail Managers and Business Managers) are currently predominantly held by 
men, with only 7% of these roles being held by women. 

Pay Quartiles
Proportion of males and females in each quartile

Quartile 1

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Quartile 4

27%

73%

25%

75%

19%

81%

14%

86%

Male
Female

Closing the Gap

We are committed to reducing our gender pay gap not only because it is the right thing to 
do and reflects our core values, but also because it makes good business sense. We know 
that making our workforce more representative of our customer base will help to achieve our 
mission of a World Class Colleague and Customer experience which will result in improved 
business performance.  
Our strategy to reduce the gender pay gap falls under three headings as follows: 

Driving Culture Change 
Through CarShop’s recently launched 
Values and Behaviours, we are driving a 
more open, transparent and inclusive culture 
where determination, trustworthiness, and 
collaboration are encouraged and celebrated.  
These values are currently being built into 
every stage of the Colleague lifecycle including 
recruitment, onboarding, performance 

management, learning & development, 
reward and recognition, career planning and 
succession planning. We believe that this 
culture change is making working for CarShop 
an enjoyable and rewarding experience for all 
and will lead to increased diversity of all kinds, 
including gender.  

Colleague development and succession planning 
By implementing a more structured and 
transparent approach to colleague development 
and succession planning, we believe that 
this is opening up opportunities for women 
to progress to more senior roles. Our new 
Talent Development strategy will deliver a 

programmatic and flexible approach to learning 
which will enable individuals to develop in role, 
along with clarity around how to ‘step up’ to the 
next level.  This will lead to a robust and diverse 
talent pipeline with clear and transparent 
succession plans.  

Promoting flexible working
We recognise that a lack of flexible jobs in the 
automotive industry is a key cause of the lower 
levels of women in senior positions resulting 
in the gender pay gap. Therefore, in line with 
our purpose of ‘Leading the Evolution of the 
Automotive Marketplace’, it is our aim to foster 

a culture where flexible working is welcomed 
and supported. We will examine any barriers 
to flexible working and work to remove them 
and will encourage an open attitude towards 
flexible solutions such as job sharing, part-time 
contracts and flexible hours.  

