Google UK's gender pay gap - 
and our commitment to closing it

Fairness is critical to everything we do at Google, and that extends to our people. Googlers’ 
experiences – of things like compensation, performance ratings, and promotion – should 
be based on what they do, not who they are.

We regularly check compensation through our global pay equity analyses. We conducted 
our first pay equity analyses in 2012 and we have run analyses every year since then. We 
completed our most recent analyses in Q4 2017 and we published the findings earlier this 
month. We looked for unexplained pay differences by gender and race / ethnicity and made 
upward pay adjustments, where necessary, before Googlers’ 2018 compensation went into 
effect. Based on these analyses and adjustments, we have zero statistically significant pay 
differences globally. 

UK gender pay gap reporting
The UK Government has introduced new regulation to raise awareness of the ‘gender pay gap’ - the 
difference in average pay between men and women in society or in an organisation. All companies 
with 250 or more employees in the UK must publicly disclose their own gender pay gap figures 
annually, by comparing the average pay for all men to the average pay for all women, without 
accounting for job type, tenure, location or performance ratings. We welcome every new effort to 
increase transparency and accountability, and today we’re publishing our UK figures. 

Google UK’s 2017 gender pay report

Mean 

Median

% gap in hourly pay between men and women

17%

16%

% gap in bonus pay between men and women

43%

27%

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus 

Women 

97%

Men

97%

Upper quartile 
(highest)

Upper middle quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Lower quartile 
(lowest) 

Quartile pay bands

Women
180

204

22%
25%
32%
40650%

263

Men
636

612

78%
75%
68%
41050%

553

The above tables show our hourly gender pay gap and bonus gap as at 5 April 
2017. The bonus ﬁgures cover the 12 months prior to this. 

The above chart shows the number and proportion of Google UK employees in four 
evenly sized quartiles from highest to lowest by hourly rate of pay. 

Our median UK gender pay gap is 16 percent in favour of men, which compares to a 
national average of 18.4 percent in the UK, and our mean gap is 17 percent. 

We’re not proud of these numbers. Since our analyses show that we have zero statistically 
significant pay differences based on gender, we know the 16 percent gap is driven by a 
representation gap. We have more men than women in senior leadership roles and in 
engineering jobs at Google, which are more highly paid - based on market rates. This can be seen 
in the chart that shows the proportion of female Googlers in each pay quartile.

This representation gap is also driving the 27 percent median and 43 percent mean difference in 
‘bonus pay’. According to the government’s methodology, ‘bonus pay’ includes not just an 
employee’s sales and company plan bonuses, but also their equity. While men and women at 
Google have an equal opportunity to earn a bonus and equity, compensation is highly incentivised 
and it increases across all forms of pay – base, bonus, and equity – as you become more senior 
and move into a leadership position. Engineers also get more equity than non-engineers because 
the market for their technology expertise is so competitive – and that difference is the main 
contributor to our bonus pay gap.

The under-representation of women in senior leadership and engineering roles is a challenge for 
us and for the entire technology industry - and it’s one we’re working hard to address. We value 
diverse teams and we know having a diverse workforce is critical to our future success. 

How we’re working to close the gap

Setting up people processes to be fair and equitable 
People processes at Google are interconnected. A Googler’s level, performance ratings, and 
promotion status all impact pay. So we set up these processes with controls for fairness along the 
way: we use data to make structured decisions, we train people to avoid bias, and we take into 
account multiple perspectives. When a Noogler is hired, we assess them against a consistent set 
of criteria for their level using rubrics and then trained, objective reviewers make hiring decisions 
(not any single hiring manager). When Googlers receive performance ratings, there are multiple 
steps to support fair evaluations. And when a manager plans a Googler’s compensation, they 
must document any change they make – even if it’s £1.

Developing and progressing the talented women we have at Google 
We have career development and executive sponsorship programmes in the UK and globally to 
support women to succeed at Google. Our employee groups like Women@Google and Google 
Women in Engineering are both actively supported by senior executives and have thousands of UK 
members. They regularly host leadership summits, provide career development opportunities, and 
offer mentorship and community. Our benefits are also designed to support Googlers in every 
phase of their lives – from recent college graduates to new parents taking care of their families 
while continuing their careers. 

Hiring more female engineers and leaders — and fostering a culture where they can thrive 
Finding the right candidates can be tough when the significant majority of Computer Science 
graduates in the UK are men. That’s why we partner with women in Tech organisations to reach 
more diverse candidate pools, and offer travel grants to provide access to development and 
networking opportunities. It’s also why we campaigned to make computer science education a 
part of the English curriculum, and through programmes like Women Techmakers Scholars, Code 
Club UK or BOLD, and direct investments in computer science education in the UK, we aim to 
inspire and develop the next generation of female coders and engineers. 

We’re making progress. Since 2014, when we first published our diversity data to spark a broader 
conversation across the industry, the proportion of women in Tech roles at Google has grown 
from 17 percent to 20 percent, and for women in leadership roles it has grown from 21 percent to 
25 percent. But we have much more to do. We will continue to focus on diversity, inclusion and 
fairness in all of our people processes, and want Google to be a great place for everyone to work.

Ronan Harris, Managing Director, UK and Ireland, Google 

I confirm that the data reported here is accurate.
Find out more about our Diversity and Inclusion efforts by visiting https://diversity.google.

