 

 

 
 
Berkhamsted recently completed its annual gender pay gap audit. Gender Pay Gap reporting 
legislation was introduced by the Government in April 2017 and requires employers to identify and 
publish their annual pay gap. It is hoped that this process will encourage employers to take action to 
reduce or eliminate any pay gap. It is important to emphasise that the pay gap is not the same as 
equal pay, which is the requirement that men and women doing the same job should be paid the 
same, and has been a legal requirement for 47 years.  
  
Gender Pay Gap Report April 2017  
  
Mean Hourly rate gender pay gap             21.36  
Median Hourly Rate Gender Pay Gap       28.68  
Bonus Pay Gap               
  24.18  
  
  
A significant determining factor in our pay gap is that, while the School pays at least the living wage 
to all employees, our domestic roles (for example cleaning staff) are almost exclusively applied for by 
local and female potential employees. Similarly, our administrative, teaching support and nursing staff 
which attract far more female than male applicants.    
  
In the upper quartile of our salaries the proportion of females is 53.3% and the proportion of Males 
is 46.7%.  The senior Executive Team will be 5 female, 6 male in September, and our Board of 
Governors is 5 female, 8 male.  
  
Teaching staff roles for both Genders are paid according to a salary scale.  Support staff roles are 
also paid according to a salary scale and each position sits at a point on the scale appropriate to the 
evaluation of the position.  
  
Whilst Berkhamsted is performing close to the UK’s overall average pay gap of 18.1%, we believe 
that any pay gap is a reason to continue working towards equality in the average hourly earnings of 
men and women at Berkhamsted.    We continue to be absolutely committed to ensuring that 
Berkhamsted is a model employer and leads the way in its standards and approach to safeguarding 
equality and equality of opportunity in the workplace. 
 
 
 

Berkhamsted Schools Group   Registered Charity No. 310630   Registered Company No. 622349 

 

