✖ Our site uses cookies for analytics. If you're unsure about it, take a look at our privacy policy . Español Português Deutsch 中文 Search term Submit search News Contact us Clients Services Products Insights Events About us Careers menu ✖ Search term Submit search Home Clients Services Financial Services Digital Platform Strategy Government Retail Travel Business Agility Products Insights Events About us Careers Overview Inclusivity Application Process Graduates Browse jobs News Contact us Español Português Deutsch 中文 uk-gender-pay-gap-report Wherever we are in the world, ThoughtWorkers share the same cultural characteristics and imperatives. We come to work as ourselves. We enjoy each other’s company. We value honesty and transparency. Appearances and backgrounds aren’t important to us; ideas and doing the right thing are. We abhor and reject discrimination and inequality and promote diversity in all its forms. We proudly, passionately and actively strive to make both ThoughtWorks and our industry more reflective and inclusive of the society that we serve. Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 employees are required to publish their gender pay gap. We welcome this opportunity and the additional transparency these regulations provide around the gender pay gap. You can download the ThoughtWorks UK Gender Pay Gap report using this link add insights add video add key message add full width image add inline image add collection of images add image and text add marketo form add events add quote add map add agenda add text add parallax image NEW add video and text NEW add collection of text NEW add collection of videos NEW add podcast NEW add sub navigation NEW add video banner NEW About ThoughtWorks We are a software company and a community of passionate, purpose-led individuals. We think disruptively to deliver technology to address our clients' toughest challenges, all while seeking to revolutionize the IT industry and create positive social change. Connect with us WeChat × Home Clients Services Products Insights Events About us Careers Contact us Press & Media | Privacy policy | © 2018 ThoughtWorks, Inc.