                              Vospers      Contact us on: 01752 636363   Vospers means motoring in the South West  Family run since 1946      New Cars  Used Cars  Motability  Business User  New Vans & Pickups  Used Vans & Pickups  Aftersales  Rental  Parts  Our Company                               Welcome to Vospers.com: The home of Motoring in Devon & Cornwall  Vospers has one of the largest ranges of new cars and used cars in the South West, as well as Motability, Car Hire, Vans and Contract Hire!      Used Car Quick Search  Used Commercial Quick Search      Select Manufacturer:   All Manufacturers  ----  Abarth (13)  Alfa Romeo (18)  Audi (1)  BMW (3)  Citroen (4)  Dacia (8)  Daihatsu (1)  Fiat (97)  Ford (306)  Honda (1)  Hyundai (4)  Jeep (13)  KIA (1)  Land Rover (1)  Mazda (112)  Mercedes-Benz (1)  Mini (3)  Mitsubishi (1)  Nissan (77)  Peugeot (66)  Renault (20)  Seat (19)  Skoda (4)  Suzuki (2)  Toyota (1)  Vauxhall (9)  Volkswagen (5)  Volvo (1)   Select Model:   All Models  ----   Postcode:    Distance:   ----  ----        Select Manufacturer:   All Manufacturers  ----  Fiat (36)  Ford (44)  Mitsubishi (1)  Nissan (1)  Peugeot (6)  Renault (33)  Toyota (1)  Vauxhall (1)  Volkswagen (2)   Select Model:   All Models  ----                               Ford Zero  Renault Manager Specials  Alfa Stelvio Large  you pay what we pay jeep home  Mazda 3 Years Free Servicing  Nissan 3 2 1 Go Offer  Peugeot SUV Event  SEAT Test Drive Event  Introducing All-New Ford Fiesta  Fiat Home Large  Ford New For Old Scrappage Scheme  Introducing All-New Ford Focus  Introducing All-New Ford Fiesta Active                  Vospers Means Motoring in the South West  Vospers is one of the leading dealerships for new car sales and used car sales in Devon and Cornwall with Ford, Peugeot, Renault, Dacia, Nissan, Fiat, Mazda, Jeep, Alfa Romeo and Abarth. At our dealerships in Plymouth, Exeter, Truro, Torbay and St. Austell, our experienced, friendly and helpful sales teams will assist you every step of the way in buying your new or used car, new or used van, motability or business fleet vehicle from Vospers.  Manufacturer approved state-of-the-art service and MOT facilities will keep your car up to manufacturer and legal standards, and because we use genuine manufacturer parts at our Approved service centres, this will keep your warranty up to date too.  If you're looking for a great deal on a new car or used car, from a family-run trusted dealership in Devon and Cornwall, choose Vospers and visit us today. And we're not just a new car and used car dealer; contact us for great deals on our business fleet hire rates, car hire for all occasions, van rental and minibus hire, access to one of the largest range of vehicle parts and spares in the South West.                      Our Locations     Exeter
                    (Honiton Road)  Exeter
                    (Marsh Barton)  Exeter
                    (Hennock Road)  Exeter Commercials
                    (Marsh Barton)  Exmouth (bodyshop)
                    (Withycombe Village Road)  Plymouth
                    (Marsh Mills)      Plympton
                    (Chaddlewood)  St. Austell
                    (East Hill)  Threemilestone
                    (Truro)  Torbay
                    (Newton Road)  Torbay (P)
                    (Newton Road)  Truro
                    (Treliske)      Truro Commercials
                    (Treliske)  Vospers Rentals
                    (Estover, Plymouth)  Vospers Rentals (Exeter)
                    (Honiton Road)  Vospers Rentals (Truro)
                    (Heron Way)  Vospers Van Centre and Accident Repair Centre, Plympton
                    (Valley Road)          Useful Links     Cookies Information  Privacy Statement  Customer Care  Used Car 30 Day Exchange Policy  Sponsorship  Modern Slavery Act Statement  Tax Strategy  Gender Pay Gap    Moved House? Update your details     Company Information   Vospers Motor House Ltd. Registered in England No. 496634 Registered Office: Vospers Motor House Ltd, Marsh Mills Retail Park, Plymouth, Devon, PL6 8AY .  Every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information on our website. However, occasionally
            errors may occur.  Please check with the appropriate Vospers dealership, who will be happy to confirm the exact specification of
            our new and used cars, vans and customer offers.          Financial Disclosure  Vospers Motor House Ltd are a credit broker and not a lender. We are Authorised and Regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 310773 Finance is Subject to status. Other offers may be available but cannot be used in conjunction with this offer. We work with a number of carefully selected credit providers who may be able to offer you finance for your purchase. Registered in England No. 496634 Registered Office: Vospers Motor House Ltd, Marsh Mills Retail Park, Plymouth, Devon, PL6 8AY .     Accessibility: A  A  A   Copyright © Vospers 2018 All rights reserved.       Car Comparison Chart:   Hide  Close    Overview   Price  Body Type  Engine Size/Fuel Type  Transmission      Car 1    Close    Car 2    Close    Car 3    Close    Car 4    Close    Car 5    Close      