 

 
Gender Pay Gap: Data and Overview 2017/18 
  
HLP is a multi-academy trust formed in 2016. As of 31st March 2017, there were 6 member schools and 461 
post-holders, some of whom hold multiple roles within a particular school totalling 566 contracts. Each school 
within  HLP  has the  delegated  autonomy  to make  a  job offer  and  determine  the  salary  rate  that  it  offers an 
employee, with the exception of Headteacher positions, subject to adhering to the agreed national pay scales 
for teaching or support staff, in accordance with the HLP Pay Policy.   
  
Overall 11% of HLP’s post holders as of 31st March 2017 are male; this includes 1 Headteacher and the CEO (3% 
of the total male posts), both posts were subject to open, national recruitment campaigns in 2017. 19 other 
members of teaching staff are male (14% of the total teaching posts). However just 29 male post holders (9% of 
the total non-teaching posts) hold non-teaching roles- predominantly premises or teaching assistant posts.  
  
The data required under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 is as follows:  
 

Difference in hourly rate of pay as a mean average 
Difference in hourly rate of pay as a median average 
Difference in bonus pay as a mean average 
Difference in bonus pay as a median average 
Percentage of employees who receive bonus pay 
Proportion of male and female employees when divided into four groups, ordered from lowest to highest 
pay: 
Upper Quartile: 
 
Upper Middle Quartile: 
 
Lower Middle Quartile: 
 
Lower Quartile: 
 

Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 

25.4% 
31.5% 
N/A 
N/A 
0% 

83% 
17% 
22% 
78% 
4% 
96% 
5% 
95% 

 
Internal analysis indicates that when female and male employees who hold the same job role are compared, the 
mean salary for female staff is at least the same as that for their male comparator. The fundamental reason 
therefore for the identified gender pay gap is the disparity in proportion between female and male employees 
in term-time only, part-time, lower paid roles in schools such as lunchtime supervisors and teaching assistants. 
The overall pay gap reflects workforce composition rather than pay inequalities 
 
HLP is strongly committed to equal opportunities and will continue to monitor the salary levels that are paid to 
its post holders to ensure that consistent principles are applied in line with the nationally negotiated guidelines 
and local Pay Policy and that both male and female staff are paid within the same pay band for the same job 
role. All vacancies are advertised and recruitment decisions are taken by a panel comprising of male and female 
colleagues. 
 

Paul Howieson 
Chief Executive Officer 

