4th April 2018                                                                                                                    

 
Link Financial Outsourcing Limited – Gender Pay Gap Analysis 

 

The median gender pay gap at Link Financial Outsourcing (“Link”) is 27%. This figure represents how 
much  lower  the  hourly  pay  of  the  average  (or  mid-point)  female  employee  is  against  that  of  the 
average male employee. The full outputs of the analysis and explanations are set out below.  

Link is an equal pay company, so employees doing the same job on the same grade are paid the same 
amount.    The  gap  that  exists  between  male  and  female  employees  therefore  reflects  the  higher 
proportion of men versus women in the more senior managerial roles in the business (men represent 
72% of the top pay quartile).  

As a company, we welcome the transparency and opportunity to consider the gender pay gap and 
ways in which we can address it. As an equal opportunities employer, all candidates are given equal 
preference  regardless  of  sex,  age,  religion,  ethnicity,  sexual  orientation,  marriage  or  gender 
reassignment.   

55%  of  our  workforce  is  female  and  we  are  committed  to  giving  women  the  same  opportunity  as 
men to apply for, and be selected for, roles at all levels within the business. 

Gender Pay Gap Data 

 
Hourly gender pay gap 

Median 

27% 

Mean 
40% 

This first set of data (hourly gender pay gap) represents  the average hourly pay gap between female 
and male  employees  on a median  (27%)  and mean (arithmetic average  at 40%) basis.  The mean is 
skewed by a small number of the highest paid employees so the median (mid-point) is considered a 
more representative reflection of the workforce as a whole.  

The gender pay gap in the company is a result of the lower number of women in senior roles.  Whilst 
female employees make up 55% of our overall workforce only 28% of the highest paid management 
roles are held by women versus 69% of positions in the lowest pay quartile.  This is demonstrated by 
the following table. 

Proportion of Females and Males by Quartile Pay Bands 

 

Females 
Males 

Lowest 
Quartile 

69% 
31% 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Quartile 

Quartile 

68% 
32% 

56% 
44% 

Highest 
Quartile 

28% 
72% 

We have also considered the difference between male and female employees in terms of the value 
of any bonus payments (“Gender Bonus Gap”).  The average female employee received a bonus 
which was 33% lower than the average male (median basis) with the mean (arithmetic average) 
being 71% lower. Again, the mean is skewed by a small number of the highest paid employees.  

Gender Bonus Gap 

 
Gender bonus gap 

Median 

33% 

Mean 
71% 

4th April 2018                                                                                                                    

 

 
While this calculation is again impacted by having fewer women in the most senior roles it is also 
affected by the number of part-time workers in the company.  A higher proportion of women are 
employed on a part-time basis and employees who work part-time receive their bonus pro-rated. 
The calculation for the gender bonus gap does not allow for any adjustment to bring these bonuses 
back to their full-time equivalent.   11% of female employees work on a part-time basis compared 
with just 1% of male employees.  Whilst we encourage flexible working at Link for both men and 
women, most of the employees doing so are women.  

Proportion of Males and Females Who Received a Bonus 

 
Received a bonus 

Female 

76% 

Male 
75% 

This final table shows that roughly the same percentage of female and male employees received a 
bonus. Bonuses are awarded based on personal and company performance, irrespective of gender. 

 

