 

Background  

Gender pay gap report for the year 2017 - 2018 

Suffolk Coastal District Council (SCDC) and Waveney District Councils (WDC) work in partnership as 
east Suffolk Council (the Councils). 

The Councils have prepared this report as part of the new legal requirement for public authorities 
to publish their gender pay gap every year and we welcome gender pay gap reporting and what it 
seeks to achieve. The Councils are committed to equality of opportunity and our approach to pay 
seeks to reward all staff fairly, regardless of gender.  

Analysis 

In 2017 the Government made it statutory for organisations with 250 or more employees to report 
annually on their gender pay gap. Government departments are covered by the Equality Act 2010 
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 which came into force on 31 March 2017. 
These regulations underpin the Public Sector Equality Duty and require the relevant organisations 
to publish their gender pay gap data by 30 March 2018 (and then annually), including mean and 
median gender pay gaps; the mean and median gender bonus gaps; the proportion of men and 
women who received bonuses; and the proportions of male and female employees in each pay 
quartile. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women in a 
workforce. If a workforce has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can indicate there may be a 
number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations may help to identify what those issues 
are. 

The gender pay gap is different to equal pay. Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men 
and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay 
people unequally because they are a man or a woman. 

The Councils’ pay approach supports the fair treatment and reward of all staff irrespective of 
gender, through a nationally greed Job Evaluation scheme which is free from bias. This is in line 
with our Pay Policy, People Strategy and Business Plan. 

This report fulfils the Councils’ reporting requirements, analyses the figures in more detail and sets 
out what we are doing to close the gender pay gap in the organisation. The information is produced 
in accordance with recommended methodologies. 

Gender make-up of the Councils 

 

Suffolk Coastal District Council 
Waveney District Council 
East Suffolk Councils 

 

 

Male 
39.6% 
46.7% 
43.7% 

Female 
60.4% 
53.3% 
56.3% 

 

Ordinary Pay 

The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly rates of pay that male and female 
employees receive. This gives an overall indication of the gender pay gap by taking all hourly rates 
of pay and dividing by the total number of people in scope. The mean gender pay gap is shown in 
the table below: 

Suffolk Coastal District Council 
Waveney District Council 
East Suffolk Councils 

16.0% 
13.5% 
13.2% 

The Councils’ pay gap compares favorably to the rest of the Public sector pay gap of 17.7% (mean) 
as published by the Office for National Statistics in October 2017i. 

The median gender pay gap shows the difference in the midpoints of the ranges of hourly rates of 
pay for men and women by ordering individual rates of pay from lowest to highest and comparing 
the middle value. The median pay gap is shown in the table below: 

Suffolk Coastal District Council 
Waveney District Council 
East Suffolk Councils 

14.2% 
20.5% 
18.5% 

The Councils’ pay gap compares favorably to the rest of the Public sector pay gap of 19.4% (median) 
as published by the Office for National Statistics in October 2017.  

Bonus Pay 

The percentage of female and male staff who received a bonus is shown in the table below: 

  

Percentage Receiving a Bonus 
 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap 

-100% 

Male 
0.0% 

Female 

0.3% 

 

 

Median Bonus Pay Gap 

-100% 

The Councils do not pay any employee bonuses. The bonus information highlighted above is from 
one employee who TUPE transferred into the organisation and has since left. The post no longer 
attracts this additional element of pay. 

Hourly pay quartiles 

This is the percentage of male and female employees in four quartile pay bands, (dividing our 
workforce into four equal parts). 

 

 

 

 

% 

Suffolk Coastal District Council 

All Staff 
First (Lower) Quartile 
Second Quartile 
Third Quartile 
Fourth (Upper) Quartile 
 

Male 
39.6% 
30.7% 
35.4% 
41.1% 
50.6% 

Female 
60.4% 
69.3% 
64.6% 
58.9% 
49.4% 

% 

East Suffolk Councils 

All Staff 
First (Lower) Quartile 
Second Quartile 
Third Quartile 
Fourth (Upper) Quartile 

Male 
43.7% 
25.9% 
36.2% 
56.4% 
55.4% 

Female 
56.3% 
74.1% 
63.8% 
43.6% 
44.6% 

Waveney District Council 
Female 
Male 
53.3% 
46.7% 
22.1% 
77.9% 
63.3% 
36.7% 
33.0% 
67.0% 
59.2% 
40.8% 

The chart below shows the proportion of male and female employees in each quartile of the 
Councils’ pay structure. 

Chart 1: Median hourly pay for both Councils 

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

All Staff

First (Lower)

Second Quartile Third Quartile Fourth (Upper)

Quartile

Quartile

Male

Female

 

The Councils recognise that, in the context of managing scarce public resources, remuneration at all 
levels needs to be adequate to attract and retain high quality employees dedicated to the service of 
the public, but at the same time needs to reflect that the Councils are part of the public sector, 
funded through the tax payer and not a private sector organisation. As a general principle, the 
Councils believe in rewarding all employees in a fair and equitable manner and this is demonstrated 
in the Pay Policy which accords with the requirements of the Localism Act 2011 and is reviewed 
annually. The Councils adopted a single pay and reward strategy in 2016 and general principles 
applying to remuneration of chief officers and employees can be found in the Councils’ Pay Policy 
here. 

 

 

The purpose of the Pay Policy is to ensure transparency and accountability with regard to our 
approach to setting pay and the Policy Statement identifies the method by which salaries are 
determined and the detail and level of remuneration of the Councils’ most senior managers. The 
Policy also provides the detail and level of remuneration for the lowest level of post and the ratio of 
pay of the top earner and that of the median earner. 

Work on reducing the gender pay gap 

The leadership of the Councils set the standard in consistently ensuring that all aspects of people 
management are dealt with fairly and are transparent. Our People Strategy underpins this and 
outlines our aim to build a strong reputation as a good employer and to be seen as both a 
progressive and exciting place to work. We want our staﬀ to be able to achieve their potential, 
feeling valued and supported in a safe and healthy workplace. We wish to attract and retain good 
quality people, by oﬀering great opportunities for interesting roles and career development. 

The Councils have a clear set of values and framework of expected behaviours which contribute to 
a culture based on trust and outcomes. Our employee engagement survey results tell us that the 
vast majority of our staff believe that there is a culture of dignity and respect at the Councils. 

There are a number of initiatives in place which should have a positive impact on reducing the 
gender pay gap, including; 

  Monitoring pay to identify pay differences and take targeted action where appropriate, 

within the Councils pay controls. 

  Ensuring that all new and changed roles are job evaluated through a robust process which 

involves Unison. 

  Flexible working policies are in place which actively encourage women to work, taking into 

account training and development that has been invested in these employees. 

  Support is provided for women returning to work - through shared parental leave, job-

sharing, compressed hours, part-time, and term-time only opportunities.  

  Encouraging men to take advantage of arrangements which enable them to fulfil their caring 

responsibilities, such as shared parental leave, part-time working and compressed hours. 

  Continuous improvement of the recruitment process, including regular diversity awareness 

sessions for recruiting managers to eliminate any bias. We ensure that our adverts are 
gender neutral and all recruitment is based on merit and competency. 

  The use of Natural Work Teams which will be utilised to promote development 

opportunities for employees across the Councils. This complements an accessible learning 
and development programme. 

  Exit interviews offered to leavers to gauge their experience and obtain feedback. 
  We will continue to encourage recognition of the value of diverse perspectives in 

developing teams. 

  Further development and implementation of the Intern scheme and graduate scheme, to 

develop future talent. 

  Continue and develop participation with local schools and colleges, offering work 

experience and attendance at careers events to assist in dispelling stereotypes. 

  Well established apprenticeship scheme in place across a range of occupational areas. 
  No market supplements in place. 

 

 

In addition, the HR team will report quarterly at our senior management team meetings on the 
progress of reducing the gender pay gap. 

 

Glossary 

Job Evaluation Scheme – this is a robust, consistent and gender neutral method for assessing 
and comparing the value of different roles. The scheme provides a basis for a grading and pay 
structure, as well as a means to demonstrate equal pay for equal work. The scheme evaluates 
the job, not the job holder, and provides a way to assess the demands of the job through an 
objective means. 

Natural Work Teams - The Natural Work Team framework is based on a ‘top down objective’ 
and ‘bottom up solutions’ approach to allow the freedom to generate solutions from a blank 
page. Natural Work Teams have responsibility for a particular process and work together in a 
participative environment. The participative approach is based on the belief that employees will 
be more productive if they have a higher level of responsibility for their work, and that people 
will advocate what they help to create. This framework has been adapted to enable wider 
organisational change. 

                                                           
i ONS Data set – Gender Pay Gap (October 2017) 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/datasets/annualsurve
yofhoursandearningsashegenderpaygaptables  

 

