Gender pay gap report 2017

ur background 

Children’s Hospice South West (CHSW) exists to make the most of short and 
precious lives and puts children and families at the centre of all it does.  
Diversity, inclusion, integrity, quality and respect are an integral part of all we do.
From 2017 onwards, any UK organisation employing 250 or more employees has to publicly report on its gender pay gap in six 
different ways: the mean and the median pay gaps; the mean and median gender bonus gaps; the proportion of men and women who 
receive bonuses, and the number of men and women according to pay quartiles. CHSW does not pay bonuses.
The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average earnings between all men and women in an organisation. The mean gender 
pay gap is the difference between the average hourly rate of pay of male full pay employees and that of female full pay employees. 
The median gender pay gap is the difference between the mid-points in the ranges of hourly earnings of full pay relevant men and 
women. It takes all the salaries, lines them up in order from lowest to highest, and picks the middlemost salary.

Headline Gender Pay Gap Figures:

At CHSW we collected our data on 5 April 2017 when our full pay workforce consisted of 346 (87%) women and 51 (13%) men.  
The figures show that CHSW has a mean gender pay gap of 12.4% (UK National Average: 18.2%) and a median of -1.2%. 

Which means that:

Women’s earnings are

Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay

12.4.% lower

1.2% higher

In common with most care professions, fundraising and the retail sector, our organisation is predominantly female. Given that 87% of 
our workforce is female, it is also the case that women outnumber men at every level of CHSW. 

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile %

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

 Men

 Women

14.1%

13.1%

85.8%

86.9%

7%

93%

17.2%

82.8%

Number of men and women in each pay quartile

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

85

86

93

82

14

13

7

17

Having a predominantly female workforce means even small fluctuations in the male workforce can have a significant impact on our 
gender pay gap.

Taking Action:

•  CHSW are committed to building gender pay gap analysis into our regular reporting cycle in order to monitor and seek to improve 

our gender balance. 

•  We will ensure that there is no bias towards either gender from the point of view of recruitment right through to progression 

opportunities.

•  We will explore how to attract more men into our organisation to create a more even gender balance given that we have more 

women than men at every level of our organisation. As a good employer, we firmly believe in appointing the best candidate into the 
role regardless of their gender or other factors covered by the Equality Act.

Declaration:

We confirm that CHSW’s gender pay gap calculations are calculated in accordance with the guidance and requirements prescribed by 
the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.
David Turner 
Chair of Trustees, March 2018 

Daphne Sands 
Director of HR

