Our Gender Pay Gap Data 
 

Introduction  
In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Information) Regulations 2017, any UK organisation 
employing 250 or more employees must publish gender pay gap statistics.    Gender pay relates to the average 
earnings within a business across all jobs, levels and salaries.   
 
Gender pay gap reporting is not about equal pay for men and women doing the same jobs,  this has been a legal 
requirement for many years.  We are confident that within HydraForce, men and women are paid equally for 
doing the same job.     
 
When reporting, companies have to provide data in six different ways:  
 
1.  The mean gender pay gap 
2.  The median gender pay gap 
3.  The mean gender bonus gap 
4.  The median gender bonus gap 
5.  The proportion of men and women who received bonuses 
6.  The number of men and women according to quartile pay bands 
 
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees 
 
The median gender pay gap is the difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees) 
 

 
Our Gender Pay Gap Data  
We collected our data on 5th April 2017,  at which time our workforce consisted of 144 women (35%) and 271 
(65%) men.  Initial reporting shows: 
 

 
 
Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 
 
 
Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 
 

Women’s earnings are: 
 
20.49% lower 

 
13.5% lower 
 

 
It should be noted, that some of our senior executives within the UK business hold global roles, to which they 
were appointed by our US parent company.  These positions have responsibility for our global markets and 
typically, report into the Office of the President or other senior departments within our US parent company.    
Accordingly, the remuneration of these individuals is commensurate with those global responsibilities and the 
pay structure adopted by our US parent company.   
 
When calculating our Gender Pay gap, without taking those positions into consideration, a more accurate 
reflection of the UK workforce emerges:  
 

 
 
Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 
 
 
Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 
 

Women’s earnings are: 
 
16.22% lower 

 
13.46% lower 
 

 

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile (%)  

 

 

90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

Male
Female

 

Upper

Upper Middle Lower Middle

Lower

 

 

 

Bonus payments  
The company did not pay any bonuses during the year leading up to April 2017 to any employees.  
 
Summary  
The average hourly pay of males within HydraForce is higher than that of females.  This is primarily because we 
have a higher percentage of men in more senior positions, both at executive level and also in other areas of the 
business.   
 
In common with many other engineering companies, we are aware that our industry sector has predominantly 
appealed and attracted a much higher number of males than females.   The IET 2017 Skills Survey estimates that 
11% of the UK engineering and technical workforce overall is female, dropping to 8.8% within manufacturing.   
 
Addressing the balance  
Our female population of 35% as at April 2017, showed a small increase over 2016 when we employed 33% 
women.  Additionally, the management team of the UK business is made up of 60% male and 40% female.  
 
The company has successfully introduced the practice of job sharing, particularly within the production 
environment, to facilitate more flexible working opportunities.  Currently of the employees who work flexibly, 
62% are female, compared with 38% male.  
 
HydraForce also offers a Childcare Voucher Scheme operated under salary sacrifice to  maximise contributions.  
 
At HydraForce we are committed to attracting an inclusive and diverse workforce.  Our recruitment practices, for 
both internal and external vacancies, encourage applications from any candidates and decisions are taken based 
on a combination of skills and experience.   
 
We are working on initiatives which include working with local universities and schools where possible to raise 
awareness of our sector, to better help people who are starting their careers to understand the opportunities 
that a career in engineering can provide.  
 
I confirm that the information contained in this statement is accurate.  
 
 

 

 
Christine Tolley 
Head of Human Resources  
 
March 2018  
 
 

