APRIL 2018

RACKSPACE UK 
GENDER PAY REPORT 
2018

RACKSPACE POSITION ON GENDER AND DIVERSITY
At Rackspace, we are committed to inclusion and diversity. Our core values 
regard every employee as a valued member of our team and critical to our 
mission. We know that diversity inspires the innovation and evolution that 
enable us to successfully serve our customers in the global and ever-changing 
technology marketplace. 

We believe in gender equality. Our goal is to advance women in technology and 
women at Rackspace through continued leadership of industry and community 
initiatives. We strive to find new ways to attract, retain, develop, and promote 
women in all areas and at all levels of our company. 

We believe every 
Racker deserves to be 
a valued member of 
a winning team on an 
inspiring mission.

A STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO 
Rackspace strives to build a workforce as diverse — in gender, race, and every 
other way — as the customers from 150 countries whom we serve from our 
offices on five continents. 

While we are confident we award comparable pay for women and men in 
comparable positions, we, like other employers in our industry, simply don’t hire 
enough women, especially in highly paid positions.

I’m committed to developing and implementing a strategy that improves our 
ability to attract, retain, develop, and promote female employees. across all lines 
of our business, in all of our locations around the world.

  — Joe Eazor, CEO, Rackspace

JOE EAZOR
CHIEF EXECTUVE OFFICER

1

April 2018  |  Rackspace Gender Pay Gap Report 2018THE FINDINGS 
The following information represents an average of our data during the  
government-required period from April 2016 to April 2017.

TABLE 1: MEAN AND MEDIAN HOURLY RATE PAY GAP

Hourly pay gap

MEAN

14.8%

TABLE 2: MEAN AND MEDIAN BONUS PAY GAP

Bonus  pay gap

MEAN

-20.7%

MEDIAN

23.7%

MEDIAN

17.7%

 
TABLE 3: PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN WHO RECEIVED BONUS PAYMENTS 
Men and women participated in our bonus rewards framework in roughly similar  
proportions during the April 2016 - April 2017 time period.

95.3%

94.8%

MEN

WOMEN

 
TABLE 4: PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN IN EACH QUARTILE PAY BAND

 

12.9%

TOP 
QUARTILE

UPPER 
MIDDLE  
QUARTILE

LOWER 
MIDDLE  
QUARTILE

LOWER 
QUARTILE

17.4%

20.5%

29.3%

MEN

WOMEN

87.1%

82.6%

79.5%

70.7%

GENDER SPLIT AT RACKSPACE
The gender balance of our UK workforce 
is currently around 80% male and 20% 
female

2

April 2018  |  Rackspace Gender Pay Gap Report 2018CURRENT EFFORTS THAT WILL SERVE AS THE FOUNDATION FOR 
OUR NEW DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION STRATEGY 

 ATTRACTING 

DEVELOPING 

RETAINING

 • We have a women’s resource 

group, the Professional 
Organisation for Women’s 
Empowerment at Rackspace 
(POWER), dedicated to enabling 
women in the technology industry 
to grow and develop personally 
and professionally.

 • We offer top-tier parental leave.
 • We support flexible work 
arrangements for Rackers, 
including for new parents 
returning to work.

 • We train our recruiters to address 
any inconsistencies or unconscious 
behaviours in the hiring process.

 • We provide training on hiring 

practices for any newly 
promoted or externally hired 
manager, focusing on addressing 
unconscious bias.

 • We will continue to partner with 

external organisations such as 
universities, colleges and external 
recruitment agencies to widen our 
pipeline of diverse talent.

 • Our Elevate Women in Leadership 
Programme focuses on preparing 
a global pipeline of female Rackers 
for senior leadership roles by 
creating opportunities to develop 
and showcase their unique 
skills and talents to support 
Rackspace goals.

 • Our Advanced Leadership 

Programme trains high-potential 
leaders whom we expect to be 
promoted to a manager-of-
managers role in the near future. 
In this program, we intentionally 
include in this program a higher 
proportion of women leaders.

 • Our Emerging Leadership 

Programme focuses on front-
line manager skills education 
alongside experiential learning 
and internal network-building 
opportunities. This programme, 
too, includes a higher proportion 
of women than we have in our 
workforce overall. 

We confirm the data reported is accurate with hourly rate pay from April 2017 and bonus pay from April 2016 to April 2017:

Joe Eazor, Chief Executive Officer

3
April 2018  |  Rackspace Gender Pay Gap Report 2018

ABOUT RACKSPACE
Rackspace is the #1 provider of IT as a service, in today’s multi-cloud world. We deliver 
certified expertise and integrated managed services across public and private clouds, 
managed hosting and enterprise applications. Because Rackspace partners with the 
leading technology providers, we are uniquely positioned to provide unbiased advice 
on the technologies that will best serve each customer’s specific needs. Rackspace is 
a leader in the 2017 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Public Cloud Infrastructure Managed 
Service Providers, Worldwide, and has been honoured within the U.K.’s top 100 Great 
Places to Work for the past 12 years.

© 2018 Rackspace US, Inc. :: Rackspace®, Fanatical Support® and other Rackspace marks are either service marks or registered service 
marks of Rackspace US, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, images, products and brands 
remain the sole property of their respective holders and do not imply endorsement or sponsorship.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT IS A GENERAL INTRODUCTION TO RACKSPACE® SERVICES AND DOES NOT 
INCLUDE ANY LEGAL COMMITMENT ON THE PART OF RACKSPACE.

You should not rely solely on this document to decide whether to purchase the service. Rackspace detailed services descriptions and legal 
commitments are stated in its services agreements. Rackspace services’ features and benefits depend on system configuration and may 
require enabled hardware, software or additional service activation.

Except as set forth in Rackspace general terms and conditions, cloud terms of service and/or other agreement you sign with Rackspace, 
Rackspace assumes no liability whatsoever, and disclaims any express or implied warranty, relating to its services including, but not limited 
to, the implied warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and noninfringement.

Although part of the document explains how Rackspace services may work with third party products, the information contained in the 
document is not designed to work with all scenarios. any use or changes to third party products and/or configurations should be made at 
the discretion of your administrators and subject to the applicable terms and conditions of such third party. Rackspace does not provide 
technical support for third party products, other than specified in your hosting services or other agreement you have with Rackspace and 
Rackspace accepts no responsibility for third-party products.

Rackspace cannot guarantee the accuracy of any information presented after the date of publication.

April 2018  |  Rackspace Gender Pay Gap Report 2018

