GENDER PAY GAP REPORT
2017

Page 1

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Executive Summary
Claims Consortium Group is a company built on a strong foundation of values and at the heart 
of our business are our company values “What Really Matters”. We use these values to put 
Claims Consortium Group at the forefront of society. Claims Consortium Group is comprised 
of three companies. We are only obliged to report on one of these companies- Property 
Consortium UK Ltd due to there being in excess of 250 employees at this company. However, 
we have chosen to also report the figures for the total Group in order to be 100% transparent.

We have been recognised as a company who have 
won awards for our Diversity & Inclusion policies 
and have been listed on the Sunday Times Top 100 
companies to work for in two consecutive years. 
 
We are committed to ensure that we remove any 
perceived social barrier for every individual who 
works for us. 
 
The median gender pay gap, which is the difference 
between the average amount that men and women 
are paid, at Property Consortium is 16.4%. This is 
better than the UK average but we know we still 
have work to do to build a truly inclusive workforce 
reflective of modern society.

Pay Quartiles

Lower Quartile

Lower Mid Quartile

Upper Mid Quartile

Upper Quartile

32%

68%

51% 49%

35%

65%

18%

82%

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

These figures show that whilst we have an overall ratio of male/female staff of 53:47 respectively, a large 
proportion of our female employees are in the lower or mid-lower quartiles.

Page 2

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017We are taking steps as a company to address this including in-house bespoke leadership development 
programmes and case studies of our current female leaders. 
 
For the whole Group, the figures are: 

•  Lower Quartile – Male 32%  Female 68%

•  Lower Middle Quartile – Male 54%  Female 46%

•  Upper Middle Quartile – Male 61% Female 39%

•  Upper Quartile – Male 87%  Female 13%

Pay and Bonus

The figures (right) show the mean and median % difference between male and female pay as well as 
bonus payment.

For the whole Group the pay and bonus figures are:

•  Mean Gender Pay Gap – 32.6%

•  Median Gender Pay Gap – 17.2%

•  Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap – 85.3%

•  Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap – 21.4%

 

PAY 

MEAN 

26.2% 

BONUS

57.6%

MEDIAN 

16.4% 

20.8%

Below are the figures relating to bonus pay showing the proportion of males and females who were in 
receipt of a bonus payment. 

12%

88%

MALE

Received a bonus 
 
Did not receive a 
bonus

22%

78%

FEMALE

Received a bonus 
 
Did not receive a 
bonus

For the whole group, 88% of males received a bonus payment and 78% of females received a bonus 
payment.

Page 3

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017It is not unequal pay that is driving the gap in our pay and bonus 
payments. Employee pay is constantly reviewed and we often 
amend pay policies to ensure we are offering fair pay to all 
regardless of gender.

Our gender pay and bonus gap is driven by:

•  Fewer women in senior leadership roles

•  More women in lower salaried-roles

•  More women than men in part-time roles

Actions

We are committed to creating a diverse and truly inclusive 
workplace which brings out the best in our people. The gender 
balance forms an important part of this commitment. We are 
taking focused actions in the following areas:

Attract and Develop Female Talent 
In 2017 we received 331 applications for jobs roles at every level of 
the company. Of these 97 were female applicants. The most senior 
position we advertised for was a Finance Director and we received 
41 applications of which 2 were female.

We are working with local networking groups and support 
functions to identify key areas in which we can improve the service 
we give to all employees. We have already implemented enhanced 
flexible working schemes to allow employees to fit work around 
their lives with greater ease. Traditionally the ‘fix’ was to become 
part-time but there are better and more creative options now to 
allow this. 
 
Leadership Programme 
We have created a bespoke leadership program with the Institute 
of Leadership & Management to help us develop employees in the 
lower and mid-lower quartile of Claims Consortium into higher 
leadership positions.

I can confirm that the information and data provided is accurate 
and in line with mandatory requirement. James Chatterjee, Group 
Finance Director

Debbie Mawer 
DIRECTOR OF PEOPLE & CULTURE

“I believe no company has 
made a conscious choice to 
either employ or not employ 
someone based on gender. We 
definitely haven’t.  
 
What we have is more 
likely the result of lots of 
sociological and cultural 
factors over many years which 
has led to some businesses 
and industries being typically 
male dominated.  
 
We advertised three IT roles 
in 2017 and received 92 
applications. Only 8 of those 
were female. We need to be 
responsible and commit to 
changes that can change this 
landscape.  
 
With the technology now 
available to us we can offer 
truly flexible working which 
can remove the traditional 
barriers”. 

Page 4

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017