Gender Pay Report 2018

At SPTS Technologies, our ambition is to be the trusted and respected leader in process solutions for the global 
semiconductor industry. We recognize that our employees are our greatest assets, and we are driven by a core belief 
that harnessing the benefits of a truly diverse and inclusive culture is key to the longevity and sustainability of the 
business. 

The Semiconductor industry in which SPTS has operated globally for more than 30 years is traditionally male dominated. 
In the UK SPTS employs just over 300 employees.  There are more males than females working for SPTS but we carry 
out regular, rigorous internal validation checks to ensure that males and females in similar roles are paid comparatively.

SPTS’s internal validation 
by job level - examples:

Job  Category
Engineering Manager
Field Engineer
Supply Chain Professional
Graduates

% Salary Difference
Females 1% higher

0%
0%
0%

Gender Split

19%

Male
Female

81%

Gender Pay Gap
Gender Bonus Pay Gap

Mean
18%
47%

Median
28%
0%

Proportion of Females & Males in 

Each Quartile Band  (%)

Upper

11%

14%

12%

Upper
Middle
Lower
Middle

Lower

89%

86%

88%

Female

Male

39%

61%

Key factors

What is SPTS doing to increase diversity at senior levels?

The Semiconductor industry is 
primarily a male dominated sector 
which naturally results in a higher 
number of males being employed in 
senior management and senior 
technical roles. Such roles attract high 
base pay and bonus.

SPTS is confident that females are 
paid comparatively within the business 
for the same role.  However, within the 
industry there is a much smaller pool 
of talent when recruiting females.

SPTS operates a shift pattern in the 
manufacturing and stores areas with a 
very competitive shift allowance. 
These areas of the business are 
predominately (94%) male which has a 
significant impact on the gap reported 
above.

SPTS currently operates a STEM( Science, Technology, Engineering, 
Maths) Ambassador programme  which enables employees to work with 
local schools, colleges and universities to promote engineering & STEM 
with the aim of encouraging more females to enter the industry. 

SPTS actively encourages female engineers to attend external recruitment 
events to act as role models and encourage female applicants.

SPTS significantly invests in leadership programmes to ensure employees 
are best placed to secure internal promotion opportunities.  

Flexible working is promoted within the organisation to enable employees 
to manage activities and responsibilities outside the workplace. SPTS has 
an enhanced maternity policy to  attract and retain employees. 

In 2016/17 35% of new hires were female. 25% of the females recruited 
were hired into technical/engineering roles.  

SPTS firmly believes that the activities outlined above and workplace best 
practices implemented will enable us to achieve the goal of increasing 
diversity throughout the organisation and ensuring females are employed in 
key roles at the highest levels of the organisation.

We confirm that the data and information reported is accurate as of the snapshot date of 5th April 2017

Kevin Crofton
President, SPTS Technologies
Corporate EVP, Orbotech

Claire Harrington
Director – HR

