INCLUSION, 
DIVERSITY &  
THE GENDER 
PAY GAP

FOREWORD

I firmly believe that the 
savings and investment 
industry will be stronger,  
and deliver greater benefits 
to customers and society  
if we create a more  
inclusive culture.

An inclusive culture can help attract the best 
talent into the industry. Diversity of people and 
thought within teams can improve decision-
making by reflecting different perspectives, 
avoiding group think and our natural human 
biases. Quite simply diversity is good for 
business, colleagues and customers. 

At Old Mutual Wealth we’re driven by 
three core values: pioneering, dependable 
and stronger together. The latter means 
that we embrace and harness our diversity, 
knowledge and relationships to create better 
outcomes for colleagues and customers. 

I am firmly committed to building a more 
inclusive culture and diverse colleague 
community. I acknowledge there is more we 
need to do to translate this commitment into 
practice and there is more that I need to do, 
including increasing the gender balance and 
diversity of my Executive Committee.

Being a proud supporter of the HM Treasury 
Women in Finance Charter and the Diversity 
Project helps us cement our commitment to 
diversity but it’s action that counts at the end 
of the day. 

As the Old Mutual Wealth Executive Sponsor 
for diversity, I will provide active and visible 
leadership in our shared goal of creating  
a more diverse and inclusive business.

ABOUT US
•  We are a leading wealth management 
business in the UK and internationally, 
helping to create prosperity for the 
generations of today and tomorrow.
•  We have an adviser and customer 
offering with £138.5bn in customer 
investments (as at 31/12/2017).

•   We employ 4,388* colleagues across 
the UK and international markets (as at 
31/12/2017).

* All permanent employees and contractors.

PAUL FEENEY
CEO, OLD MUTUAL WEALTH

2

OUR APPROACH TO 
INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY

We want to foster an 
inclusive culture that 
attracts the best talent 
and diverse perspectives 
irrespective of people’s age, 
gender, ethnicity, disability, 
religion, sexual orientation, 
educational or social 
background. We believe this 
is good for our people, good 
for our customers and good 
for business. 

Whilst we have made a start we 
acknowledge that there’s more work to do, 
both as an individual company and as part 
of the wider savings and investment industry. 
We have identified a number of priorities for 
us to establish solid foundations in order to 
achieve our ambitions.

WE WILL:

1.   Foster an inclusive culture by raising 
awareness of inclusion and diversity, 
including the potential for unconscious 
bias, through training and our employee 
diversity network. 

2.  Attract diverse talent by using a range  
of new recruitment channels such as the 
Old Mutual Wealth Returner Programme 
and requiring diverse shortlists. 

3.  Improve the measurement and monitoring 

of our diversity by collecting more 
data from applicants and colleagues, 
monitoring and reporting on our progress. 

4.  Collaborate with others to tackle barriers 
to diversity within the investment industry, 
through the Diversity Project, Investment 
2020 and the HM Treasury Women in 
Finance Charter. 

Old Mutual Wealth is a proud signatory  
of the HM Treasury Women in Finance 
Charter which seeks to improve gender 
balance at all levels across the financial 
services sector. The Charter commits firms 
to support the progression of women into 
senior roles by focusing on the executive 
pipeline and the mid-tier level; setting, and 
reporting on, targets for gender diversity in 
senior management.

We are founding members of the Diversity 
Project which is a collaborative initiative that 
brings investment and savings firms together 
to accelerate progress towards an inclusive 
culture in the investment profession. The 
Project shares best practice and identifies 
ways to help create a more diverse industry 
at all levels from intake to senior leadership 
and the board.

3

GENDER BALANCE

Whilst we interpret diversity 
in its widest sense, covering 
a range of characteristics, 
we recognise that the 
investment industry has 
struggled to achieve gender 
balance within senior 
management levels. This 
position is reflected in our 
own organisation where 
only a third of our senior 
management* are female. 

4

We want to address this and create more 
gender diversity in senior positions. To 
underline our commitment we are a proud 
signatory to the HM Treasury Women in 
Finance Charter which requires firms to  
work together to build a more balanced  
and fair industry. 

As a signatory we pledge to promote gender 
diversity by having clear executive level 
accountability as well as setting targets for 
gender diversity in senior management and 
reporting progress against these every year. 

Our CEO is the Executive Sponsor for 
diversity in our business. Additionally, 
our whole Executive Committee is also 
responsible for championing an inclusive 
culture in their respective areas of the 
business; they all have diversity objectives 
in their performance scorecards and their 
remuneration is linked to performance 
against these objectives. 

In 2017 we set our target for gender balance 
in senior management; a minimum of 35%, 
but aiming for 40% of senior management* 
being female by the end of 2020. 

OLD MUTUAL WEALTH BOARD  

 64%    36% 

SENIOR MANAGEMENT*                

 67%    33% 

ALL COLLEAGUES

 52%    48% 

As at January 2018

* In line with the Hampton-Alexander Review we define 
‘senior management’ as our Executive Committee and 
their direct reports.

GENDER  
PAY GAP 

The ‘gender pay gap’ 
measures the difference 
in the average hourly pay 
between men and women in 
an organisation. 

New legislation* has been introduced to 
tackle gender inequality in the workplace by 
increasing transparency around the gender 
pay gap. Under the new rules employers with 
250+ employees are required to measure 
and report their gender pay gap information 
each year. 

The legislation requires information to be 
disclosed via the Government’s online portal** 
for each individual employer entity. To provide 
a picture across our whole organisation 
we have reported our overall gender pay 
gap data in this paper in addition to the 
mandatory report required by law.

It’s important to differentiate between the 
‘gender pay gap’ and ‘equal pay’. Equal pay 
is about ensuring that people performing the 
same role (or work of equal value) receive 
equal pay, regardless of their gender. As part 
of our annual performance management and 
pay review process we ensure that our people 
are being paid fairly based on their role, 
responsibilities, experience and performance. 

Gender pay gaps can be caused by a variety 
of factors, but typically the most significant 
cause is the distribution of men and women 
at different seniority levels, and pay grades, 
in an organisation. The smaller the proportion 
of women in senior, higher paid, roles, the 
larger the pay gap is likely to be. 

We are required to report the mean and 
median hourly pay gap and bonus gap as 
at 5 April each year, the proportions of men 
and women in each pay quartile and the 
percentage of men and women receiving 
a bonus.

OLD MUTUAL WEALTH: GENDER PAY 
GAP DATA*** (AS AT 5 APRIL 2017)

Mean

Median

Hourly  
pay gap

39% 35%
Bonus gap 80% 49%

PERCENTAGE OF MEN AND  
WOMEN RECEIVING A BONUS

 84%    85%

PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN BY PAY QUARTILE

Employees’ fixed hourly pay ranked highest to lowest, split into four equal groups, showing the proportion of men and women in each group.

25%

FIRST (TOP)  
QUARTILE

SECOND  
QUARTILE

57%

THIRD  
QUARTILE

75%

50%

50%

 MEN    

 WOMEN

59%

FOURTH  
(BOTTOM)  
QUARTILE

43%

41%

*The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 
** https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Viewing/search-results
***  The Old Mutual Wealth Group Gender Pay Gap figures include all employees and fixed term contractors as at the snapshot date, across all jurisdictions, with the exception of a small number of staff in Singapore 

as their pay structures are different and not directly comparable for the purpose of this disclosure.

Data notes: Data covers 3,571 employees as at 5 April 2017. Data includes all employees employed on the snapshot date (5 April 2017) who are receiving full pay; it excludes employees on less than full pay 
as a result of being on leave are not included in the hourly pay gap calculations but are included in the bonus gap calculations. Bonus Period is the 12 months preceding the snapshot date, bonus received in this 
period is included. The amount of an employee’s ordinary pay or bonus pay is calculated before deductions made at source (for example deductions in relation to income tax). Ordinary pay includes basic pay, 
allowances, pay for piecework, pay for leave, shift premium pay. Bonus pay includes profit sharing, productivity, performance, incentive and commission. The data excludes paid overtime, redundancy or termination 
of employment, pay in lieu of annual leave or pay which is not money. Mean pay gap is the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant 
employees expressed as a percentage of the mean hourly rate of pay of male full pay relevant employees. The median pay gap is the difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees expressed as a percentage of the median pay of male full-pay relevant employees. Unlike the median which identifies the middle number of a data set,  
the mean is the arithmetic average and is influenced by the highest and lowest numbers of a data set.

5

UNDERSTANDING  
OUR GAP 

Old Mutual Wealth has 
4,388 colleagues across 
the UK and international 
markets (as at 31/12/2017). 
Despite a relatively even 
gender split across the 
whole organisation, this 
gender balance is not 
consistent at all levels of 
seniority in the business.  

 

The demographic of our workforce, specifically 
the under representation of women in senior 
and revenue generating roles, is the key driver 
behind our gender pay gap figures. Our 
remuneration policies and processes, including 
our annual performance management and pay 
review process, incorporate thorough checks 
and controls to ensure that people performing 
equivalent roles, or roles of equal value, are 
rewarded fairly, regardless of their gender 
or other diversity factors. During the year we 
maintain a focus on equal pay through our job 
evaluation methodologies that size roles and 
make pay decisions, regardless of gender. 

Our gender pay gap figures can be attributed 
to three key factors: 

1. We have fewer women than men in senior 
leadership roles. Whilst 48% of our overall 
colleague community are female, just a third 
of our senior leaders are female.  This has 
a direct impact on the pay and bonus gap, 
as senior roles attract higher salaries and are 
more heavily weighted to bonuses.     

2. The bonus gap is also driven by the over 

representation of men in revenue generating 
roles which typically attract higher 
performance related bonuses.

3. Another contributor to our bonus gap is 

the higher proportion of women who work 
part-time. As at April 2017, 17% of our 
employees worked part-time, of which the 
vast majority (15%) were female.   

 

6

TACKLING  
THE GAP 

Addressing the gender pay 
gap relies on us creating 
more gender balance 
at all levels of seniority 
throughout the business. 

To do this we need to understand why the 
current imbalance exists, and what barriers 
there are to women holding more senior 
positions. We are committed to tackling this 
and have taken some initial steps already 
within our own business and are working 
collaboratively with others to address more 
systemic issues associated with the savings 
and investment industry.  

TARGETS

DIVERSE SHORTLISTS

We are adopting a diverse shortlist policy 
for all new senior hires. In particular 
shortlists should reflect both genders 
and we encourage broader diversity 
characteristics where the pool of candidates 
with appropriate skills and experience are 
available. Instances where this requirement 
cannot be fulfilled are investigated to 
understand the cause and possible solutions. 

THE DIVERSITY PROJECT

We are founding members of this 
collaborative initiative set up by the Investment 
Association which is taking action to 
accelerate progress towards an inclusive 
culture within the savings and investment 
industry. The Project comprises numerous 
work streams, including ones that are directly 
focused on attracting and retaining women 
in the industry. The Project also holds careers 
seminars at universities to promote the savings 
and industry as a potential career for women. 
As a member of Diversity Project we can also 
make use of the Project’s Returner Hub that 
connects returner candidates with employers.  

In 2017 we set our target for gender balance 
in senior management; a minimum of 35%, 
but aiming for 40% of senior management* 
being female by the end of 2020.  We have 
cemented our commitment to these targets by 
becoming a signatory of the HM Treasury 
Women in Finance Charter. (*Executive 
Committee and their Direct Reports).

TRAINING AND AWARENESS

To raise awareness of inclusion and 
diversity within our business we are ensuring 
that everyone has training to boost their 
understanding of the potential for unconscious 
bias in our day to day decisions, and the 
techniques we can employ to mitigate 
these risks. For those in leadership and 
management positions this training is more 
comprehensive and delivered face to face. 
For hiring managers training is provided to 
ensure that we guard against unconscious 
bias in the recruitment process. 

NEW RECRUITMENT CHANNELS

We have started to use new channels to 
attract more diverse talent, including job 
boards that target diverse candidates as well 
as other programmes such as our ex-military 
and returner programmes. 

We have launched the Old Mutual Wealth 
Returner Programme, which with our return-
to-work specialist partner, aims to create 
supported routes back into work for women 
who have been out of the industry for an 
extended career break. 

7

CONCLUDING  
REMARKS 

We are committed to 
creating an inclusive culture 
that promotes a diverse 
workplace. 

We interpret diversity in its broadest 
sense, however, as a priority we want to 
improve our gender balance within senior 
management and have set targets to work 
towards. The current under representation of 
women in senior management roles is the 
main driver behind our gender pay gap. 
We expect to reduce our pay gap as we 
increase the proportion of females in senior 
roles in the coming years. Whilst we have 
made a start we know there is more work 
to do and we look forward to sharing our 
progress over time. 

CONTACT US
For queries related to this report please email 
responsiblebusiness@omwealth.com 

www.oldmutualwealth.co.uk

