Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
Nova Education Trust

The Directors and leadership of the 
Nova Education Trust welcome the 
introduction of national gender pay 
reporting.
This process has provided the impetus to begin a systemic review of 
pay equality and opportunity within the Nova Education Trust with the 
clear aim of eliminating the gender pay gap and potential associated 
career limitations wherever possible. In addition, the trust does not 
accept reducing the gender pay gap to the national figures as an 
acceptable end point for this process and will endeavour to move to a 
neutral position as its ultimate aim.

As all our posts are aligned to nationally-agreed pay scales, there is no 
structural reason for any discrepancy between male and female pay 
within the bands for the same roles.

In light of this, we need to review how processes, roles, operational 
decisions and expectations within trust institutions may be generating 
gender pay gaps within our neutral pay structure.

This year’s report has identified three key areas for further 
investigation, review and development, particularly in light of the far 
narrower gap of 4% amongst our teaching staff and school leadership 
teams. 

Whilst that 4% gap amongst teachers and school leadership teams is a 
pleasing starting point for the stated aim of eliminating any gender pay 
gap, it does serve to highlight the wider gap experienced by colleagues 
in Educational Operational Support and senior trust positions. 

We are required to publish the results on our own website and the 
government website. We will do this by 30 March 2018. 

Gender pay reporting requires our organisation to make calculations based 
on employee gender. We have collated this data from HR and payroll 
records held on our HR and payroll systems.

This report reflects the position of the trust on 31 March 2017. At that time, 
the trust had six schools and 606 employees.

The trust has significantly expanded since then with 13 schools and 1,552 
employees. We will be undertaking further reporting on gender pay during 
the year to gain a better understanding of our current position, allowing 
us to respond in the most effective manner to the issues discussed on the 
supporting statement.

We confirm that the following information has been prepared from our 
payroll data on the snapshot date and is an accurate account of the Nova 
Education Trust gender pay information.

 

John Tomasevic 
 
Chief Executive Officer 

John Mills 
Chairman of the Board of Directors

We aim to further explore and address 
the following areas:
1.  GENDER PAY GAP IN THE LOWEST TWO 

QUARTILES

Aim

The trust will explore how we can address the gender 
pay gap in the lowest two quartiles, with particular 
reference to part-time staff in catering, cleaning and 
student supervision roles.

Context

The majority of our staff in the lower pay quartiles are 
female. The roles in these quartiles generally offer 
part-time or term-time contracts. This significantly 
impacts on the gap between male and female average 
hourly rates of pay.

Professional development is a cornerstone of 
our teaching staff entitlement. It is a process that 
breaks down barriers in regards to transparent equal 
opportunities for all staff, regardless of gender, 
ethnicity, disability or sexual orientation. 

We will review CPD entitlement for roles within 
the lower quartiles with the aim of enable these 
colleagues in these positions to access pay 
progression through professional growth.

2.  DECLINE IN FEMALE REPRESENTATION

Aim

The trust will explore the decline in female 
representation through the four quartiles with 
particular reference to career progression inhibitors 
and institutionalised bias.

Context

The proportion of male and female colleagues in the 
upper quartile pay bands shows that whilst we have a 
higher proportion of women in the higher paid roles 
than men, this figure declines over the four quartiles.

This potentially indicates that female colleagues 
progress through the organisation at a slower rate 
or in reduced numbers than their male counterparts 
and therefore receive reduced levels of remuneration 
over the course of their careers.

We will look at strategies at both trust- and school-
level to ensure the equality of opportunity in the 
preparation, training and recruitment of future senior 
leadership-level posts. 

3.  BONUS GENDER PAY GAP

Aim

The trust will work to understand the gap in bonus 
payments and review processes as necessary in light 
of the findings.

Context

The bonus figures in this report relate to six 
employees. A significant increase in staff receiving 
bonus payments will be taken into account when 
exploring this area of the gender pay gap reporting.

Nova Education Trust Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Our data
We are, as an employer, required by law to carry out gender pay reporting under the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. This involves carrying out six 
calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in 
our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employees’ data.

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

Bonus payments

Across the trust the difference between 

the mean hourly pay of full-pay men 
and women is 23%. The mean national 

average pay gap is 18.1%.

Across the trust the difference between 

the median pay of full-pay men and 
women is 32%. The median national 

average pay gap is 23%.

Mean bonus gender pay gap
The trust’s difference in mean bonus 
pay for men and women expressed as a 
percentage is 58%. The bonus payments 

national average gap is 48.8%.

Median bonus gender pay gap
The difference between the median 
bonus pay of men and women across 

the trust is 66%.

The proportion of men and women who 
received bonus payment within the snap 
shot dates is 2% of male employees and 

0.7% of female employees.

Proportion of males and 
females in each pay quartile

Lower: 15% male, 85% female 

Lower-middle: 21% male, 79% female 
Upper-middle: 26% male, 74% female 

Upper: 34% male, 66% female 

Overall trust headlines

Hourly pay gap

Bonus pay gap

Percentage of staff 
receiving bonuses

Proportion of 

workforce

Proportion of workforce 

split into quartiles

23%
32%

 Mean
 Median

58%
66%

 Mean
 Median

2%
0.7%

 Male
 Female

85%

79%

74%

66%

 Male
 Female

15%
Lower

21%

Lower-
middle

26%
Upper-
middle

34%
Upper

