Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
Snapshot date: 5 April 2017 
 
Pay and Bonus Gap 
 

 
 
Hourly pay 
Bonus 

       Difference between men and women 

Mean 
27% 
83% 

Median 

20% 
82% 

 
Proportion of people awarded a bonus in 2016 

Men 54%

Bonus

No bonus

Pay Quartiles  

Lowest

Men 50% Women 50%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Women 43%

Bonus

No bonus

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Highest

Men 54% Women 46%

Men 76% Women 24%

Men 88% Women 12%

Statement from the Managing Director 
 
From April 2017, the UK Government has introduced the requirement for all large employers to measure and publish the difference between 
men and women’s earnings.  According to the Office of National Statistics, the gender pay gap across the UK stood at 18.1% in 2016.  The 
causes of a gender pay gap are complex but its monitoring can help better understand it and action being targeted to reduce it. 
 
The figures above relate to pay that was earned during the period between 6 April 2016 and 5 April 2017.  At 20%, our median gender pay 
gap is slightly higher than average.  We have explained why we consider this to be the case below.  Carrs Billington will monitor its gender 
pay gap and continue to report it, together with the steps being taken to address it, annually. 
 
We are confident that men and women are paid the same for doing equivalent jobs at Carrs Billington.  Operating in the agricultural sector, 
Carrs Billington has historically employed a high proportion of men and has a low staff turnover.  The natural consequence of this is that 
greater numbers of men than women currently hold senior positions.  Having a large sales division, a significant number of workers earn 
their  pay on a commission  basis.  The vast majority  of such individuals are also currently male which has a substantial  impact upon the 
company’s bonus pay gap statistics.   
 
In recent years, we have committed significant investment in our recruitment, training and  development practices.   A number of career 
pathway and employee development programmes have been established which are designed to attract, retain and develop the best talent.  
The company has a strict equal opportunities policy and ensures that appropriate consideration is given to diversity, including gender balance, 
in making recruitment decisions.  The organisation believes in developing future leaders from within.  
 
The business is aware that its policy of recruiting for the future may negatively impact upon the above figures in the short-term.  It is however 
confident that the steps it is taking will ultimately improve the gender balance and diversity within the workforce at all levels.   
 
I confirm that the data reported is accurate. 
 
 
 
Rae Tomlinson 
Managing Director 
Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) Limited 
5 December 2017 

