2017 UK Gender Pay 
Gap Report

Morgan Stanley is committed to a workforce and 
work environment that promotes equality, diversity 
and inclusion where everyone is treated with dignity 
and respect. Our policies and practices, including 
those on pay, reflect and promote this commitment. 
Attracting, retaining and developing the best and 
most diverse talent is a key strategic priority. Our 
commitment to an inclusive culture where everyone 
can maximise their potential, regardless of gender, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or any 
other characteristics, is fundamental to driving our 
business forward.

Proactively increasing the number of women in senior management roles and 
nurturing the future pipeline is a top priority for our global leadership team. 
Significant effort is being made towards achieving greater gender balance 
across all levels and functions. The correlation between gender-balanced teams 
and improved decision-making, innovation and performance aligns with our 
core values of leading with exceptional ideas, putting clients first and doing 
the right thing.
The gender pay gap should not be confused with equal pay. Simply put, the 
gender pay gap is the average pay difference between men and women across 
the whole organisation, irrespective of role or level. Equal pay is ensuring men 
and women are being paid equally for the same or similar role, or for work of 
equal value. Ensuring compensation decisions are made fairly and consistently, 
regardless of gender, race, or any other diverse demographic and are based 
on an individual’s role, performance and experience, is at the heart of our 
meritocratic culture.
In accordance with the UK Government’s Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
regulations, in this report we publish our UK gender pay gap figures.  
The results reflect that despite our efforts to close the gap, we currently have  
a greater proportion of men than women in our senior positions, and therefore  
in more highly paid roles. Addressing this gender imbalance is key to 
narrowing the pay gap.

CEO Statement

Throughout my career, I have been a 
champion of strong accountability, 
robust talent management and 
transparent metrics to address the 
gender imbalance in our senior ranks. 
Not only is this a critical aspect 
of my responsibilities as CEO of 
Morgan Stanley International, it is 
fundamental to my role as Executive 
Champion of the HM Treasury Women 
in Finance Charter. I am proud that 
Morgan Stanley was an early signatory 
of this pledge to build more gender 
balance across the UK Financial 
Services industry, and the first major 
US investment bank to do so.
Unfortunately, the gender pay gap is 
an issue across the Investment Banking 
sector and the Financial Services 
industry as a whole. I am encouraged by 
the efforts Morgan Stanley has already 
made to increase female representation 
in senior management, but our metrics 
are not where we would like them to 
be. Significant improvement requires 
continued proactive focus. There is much 
more work to do. We acknowledge that 
meaningful and sustainable change 
will take time. We reiterate our strong 
commitment to develop, promote and 
retain talented women across the firm 
and make this change happen.
I confirm the data in this report 
is accurate.

Robert Rooney 
CEO of Morgan Stanley International

1

Our Results

In line with the UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations, we 
are providing gender pay gap data for the two Morgan Stanley 
UK entities that had 250 or more employees as at 5 April 
2017–Morgan Stanley UK Limited (MSUK–predominantly 
Infrastructure divisions) and Morgan Stanley Employment 
Services Limited (MSES–predominantly Revenue divisions).

First, we review the consolidated median data for these two 
entities referred to as Morgan Stanley UK Group, which is a 
more accurate reflection of our UK workforce. The median 
is the middle figure when the hourly rates of all relevant 
employees are listed in ascending order. 

Headline Data for Morgan Stanley UK Group

Morgan Stanley UK Group Median Gender Pay Gap 
Over a snapshot period of a month in April 2017, our 
Morgan Stanley UK Group median gender hourly pay gap 
was 35.2%. This means that when we look at the hourly 
median rate of pay for men compared with women, without 
differentiating by role or level, a woman’s hourly pay was 
35.2% less than a man’s. This is based on 5,010 employees 
within Morgan Stanley UK Group, of which 34% were 
women. This figure is in line with the anticipated average size 
of the Financial Services gender pay gap, currently estimated 
to be approximately between 35% and 38% (from the Office 
for National Statistics and the World Economic Forum).
We are committed to ensuring that our gender pay gap 
is not due to our compensation policies or practices. We 
have robust practices in place and carry out annual reviews 
of the compensation framework as part of the year-end 
compensation process. From these reviews, and through this 
process, we have identified that the gender pay gap is more 
a reflection of the fact that there are not enough women in 
senior positions. The fact that there are comparatively more 
women in some of our infrastructure divisions and support 
roles also contributes.

MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP MEDIAN GENDER 
HOURLY PAY GAP

35.2%

Morgan Stanley UK Group Bonus Data
Employees who are eligible to be considered for a discretionary 
bonus may receive an annual award of variable pay dependent 
on a number of factors (including, but not limited to):
•  An individual employee’s performance, relative contributions 

and conduct

•  The performance of the Firm, division and team
•  The employee’s rate of pay relative to internal and 

external markets

•  The extent to which the employee upheld the firm’s values
•  Business and market conditions
In accordance with the regulations, the median bonus data is 
calculated over the 12-month period preceding 5 April 2017. 
When we consider the annual bonus, without differentiating 
by role or level, a woman’s annual bonus was 55.6% less than a 
man’s. 85.2% of men received a bonus versus 75.5% of women.

MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP MEDIAN GENDER BONUS GAP

55.6%

MORGAN STANLEY UK GROUP PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES 
WHO RECEIVED AN ANNUAL BONUS

85.2%

75.5%

2

2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTMorgan Stanley UK Group Proportion of Men and 
Women in Each Pay Quartile
PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES IN EACH PAY QUARTILE

PAY QUARTILE

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

WOMEN MEN

50.0%

39.5%

29.2%

19.3%

50.0%

60.5%

70.8%

80.7%

This table shows the gender split for Morgan Stanley UK 
Group when we order hourly rates of pay from highest to 
lowest, and group into four equal employee quartiles.
In our lowest pay quartile, we had an equal distribution of men 
and women, although as a proportion of the female workforce 
as a whole, women are overrepresented in some infrastructure 
and support roles. The representation of women decreases in the 
next three quartiles, highlighting the gender imbalance in our 
senior ranks.

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017 by Entity

Morgan Stanley UK Limited–MSUK
PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN
MEDIAN MEAN

Morgan Stanley Employment Services Limited–MSES
PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN
MEDIAN MEAN

Hourly Pay

Bonus

24.6%

33.7%

24.0%

58.7%

Hourly Pay

Bonus

46.2%

61.4%

50.4%

68.6%

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING A BONUS

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING A BONUS

82.1%

77.1%

89.6%

72.4%

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES IN EACH PAY QUARTILE
PAY QUARTILE

WOMEN MEN

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES IN EACH PAY QUARTILE
PAY QUARTILE

WOMEN MEN

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

46.9%

45.0%

30.4%

26.1%

53.1%

55.0%

69.6%

73.9%

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

51.0%

34.0%

23.0%

12.9%

49.0%

66.0%

77.0%

87.1%

3

2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTFemale Senior Management Representation

The Firm has demonstrated a strong commitment to 
improving representation; however, we are not yet seeing the 
kind of progress that we would like. We were encouraged 
that of our EMEA officer promotions effective January 2017, 
31.5% of Managing Director (MD) promotions were women, 
a record for the region.
Improving the representation of women on our boards and 
senior committees is a significant focus. Elizabeth Corley, 
Vice Chair of Allianz Global Investors (UK), was appointed 
to the global Morgan Stanley Board in 2018, increasing 
female representation to 23%. In 2018, Noreen Whyte, CEO 
of Morgan Stanley Bank International Ltd (MSBIL) and 
Co-Head of the Loan Solutions Group, was appointed to the 
board of Morgan Stanley & Co International Plc (MSIP) as an 
Executive Director, subject to regulatory approval. Together 
with our two Non-Executive Directors, Mary Phibbs and 
Terri Duhon, the female representation on the MSI and MSIP 
Boards now stands at 25% versus a target of reaching 27% 
female representation on the boards by the end of 2018. 
Noreen Whyte, Mary Phibbs and Terri Duhon all sit on the 
board of MSBIL, which has 30% female representation.

Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd (MSIM) is 
chaired by Terri Duhon and Fiona Kelly is a Non-Executive 
Director–both were appointed in 2018. A third of the MSIM 
board is female and it has exceeded its board diversity target of 
reaching 27% female representation by the end of 2018.
In 2018, Diane Hosie was appointed CEO of Morgan Stanley 
Investment Management (ACD) Ltd and Eimear Cowhey was 
appointed as a Non-Executive Director; the board now has 
40% female representation.
In 2017, two women were added to the European Operating 
Committee (EOC): Juliet Estridge, Director of European 
Equity Research; and Fiona Kelly, EMEA Head of Operations.
We were pleased that three Morgan Stanley women were 
listed on Financial News’ 2017 100 Most Influential Women 
in Finance: Juliet Estridge, Director of European Equity 
Research; Becci McKinley-Rowe, Head of UK Equity Sales; 
and Clare Woodman, Global Chief Operating Officer for 
Institutional Securities.

Actions Being Taken to Increase the Senior Management 
Female Pipeline

Our commitment to increasing senior female representation 
is evidenced by our early signing of the HM Treasury Women 
in Finance Charter. We are proud to be regularly featured in 
The Times Top 50 Employers for Women in partnership with 
Business in the Community, and the Bloomberg Gender-
Equality Index.

4

2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

Our gender action plan has five key components:
1.  Senior Leadership Commitment
Our board, EMEA CEO and EMEA Diversity Action 
Council (DAC) ensure intense focus on our gender strategy 
and accountability for progress. Quarterly meetings are held 
with the EOC, analysing progress on firmwide and divisional 
metrics and initiatives. Division heads discuss their senior 
high-potential women with regard to performance, profile, 
platform and potential at a dedicated EOC meeting, which 
going forward will be held twice a year. Divisional female 
representation targets have been agreed at VP and ED level. 
An annual action plan for each division with three targeted 
initiatives on improving the senior female pipeline is regularly 
reviewed and progress measured. 
Our DAC provides thought leadership and acts as a catalyst 
to drive forward the diversity strategy both from a firmwide 
and divisional perspective. Its 25 Managing Director 
members meet monthly, working closely with the Diversity 
and Inclusion, and Talent teams. Our DAC is co-chaired by 
Jakob Horder, Head of Fixed Income and a member of the 
Global Management Committee; and Becci McKinley-Rowe, 
Head of UK Equity Sales. 

“Each business develops a customised approach to 
driving increased ownership and accountability for the 
progression of women into senior roles, while also 
staying true to the Firm’s meritocratic principles.”
Head of Fixed Income and Co-Chair of the EMEA 
Diversity Action Council

“The Diversity Action Council plays a key role in driving 
our female recruitment, retention and development 
strategy and corresponding initiatives. Actively managing 
development, promotion and succession planning is 
essential to increasing female representation at senior 
levels. Our 4P Talent Track initiative (performance, 
profile, platform and potential) and working with the 
managers of high-potential women is a major focus 
for 2018.”
Head of UK Equity Sales and Co-Chair of the EMEA 
Diversity Action Council

2.  Focus on Female Recruitment
What is key to increasing the percentage of women in senior 
management is to ensure that we are successful at recruiting 
talented women. This starts at entry level. Since 2011, we have 
run our School Outreach programme with senior female role 
models aligned to over 45 target schools in both the state and 
independent sector. This raises awareness of the industry and 
the breadth of roles and opportunities available, encouraging 
talented women to apply to our two-day Step In, Step Up 
A-level programme, which runs twice a year, or our annual 
Technology Step In, Step Up Insight day. We have expanded 

our female university outreach with targeted “Paths to Success” 
skills and networking sessions. We have also focused on social 
mobility outreach and expanded our efforts to recruit more 
students from Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic backgrounds 
by working with three new specialist partner organisations. 
Each division has set summer and full-time female campus 
hiring targets, the majority of which are at 50%.
In experienced hire recruiting, we have established the 
monitoring of diverse CV and interview shortlists. In 2017, 
72% of CV shortlists and 64% of interview slates included 
at least one woman. Last year marked the fourth anniversary 
of our London Return to Work programme–a 12-week paid 
internship for experienced professionals currently on a career 
break of at least two years. A total of 70% were offered roles 
at the conclusion of the 2017 programme, with a 100% 
acceptance rate.

“As the Diversity Action Council representative for 
Technology, I regularly share granular divisional diversity 
metrics with the Management team, in particular, female 
experienced hire results by department. Increased data 
transparency, accountability and enhanced creative 
sourcing efforts have been instrumental in helping us 
double our female experienced hire numbers in 2017.”
EMEA Head of Infrastructure Technology, Global Head 
of Enterprise Computing and EMEA Diversity Action 
Council Representative for Technology

3.  Path to Leadership and Robust Talent Management 
Enabling high-potential women to enhance their leadership 
capabilities and increase their exposure to senior management 
is a priority. We have sharpened our focus on mentoring 
and sponsorship, one example being our global Institutional 
Securities (ISG) mentoring initiative, ISG Connects. 
Mentors and mentees are carefully selected for each six- 
month cohort. Professional development and networking 
opportunities are offered throughout, and mentors have 
access to mentee performance feedback to enable targeted 
development coaching.
In addition to our flagship mixed leadership programmes–
Morgan Stanley Leaders Programme (MSLP), Executive 
Director Development Series (EDDS) and Associate Leaders 
Programme (ALP)–we have three impactful leadership and 
career development programmes for our high potential 
female talent:
•  Project Catalyst (one level below Vice President)–

new in 2017

•  Project Impact (Vice Presidents)
•  Platinum (Executive Directors)
Our Platinum programme offers group workshops on specific 
topics tailored to the participants’ leadership growth needs, 
senior speaker business/career insight sessions and one-on-one 
coaching. All of these programmes provide an opportunity for 
participants to build a strong peer support network.

5

5.  Prioritising Manager Education
Manager training on inclusive leadership, promoting a culture 
of regular feedback, and proactively nurturing the careers of 
team members will continue into 2018. We proactively help 
to mitigate unconscious bias at all appropriate recruitment, 
evaluation and promotion touchpoints. Nurturing a culture 
of conscious inclusion is fundamental to our role as a global 
leader. In 2018, our 4P Talent Track initiative will further 
encourage our managers to enhance the profile, platform and 
potential of their female talent, enabling them to optimise 
their performance.

“Managers are key to retaining employees in any 
organisation. Managers need to view their team members 
as individuals and take the time to understand what 
motivates them, what they are good at, and what are 
their development areas. Managers who know their 
employees individually are better able to represent them 
in broader forums internally, where it matters, and are 
also better able to source opportunities for employees 
to grow and develop. I think we are at an exciting time 
in the Financial Services industry in looking at diversity, 
and the industry is in a position to make real change. 
Retention of diverse talent is a crucial part of the 
equation, and it comes down to individual managers who 
are key to making this happen.”
Head of Risk Management for Fixed Income, EMEA and 
Sponsor of the Women’s Business Alliance and 2017 
Platinum Programme

2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

“To increase the number of women promoted to senior 
positions in Financial Services, they need mentors to help 
them navigate through situations, expand their networks 
and become better connected within their organisation. 
They also need sponsors to help pull them up. Growing 
the pipeline of women to move into more senior positions 
is firmly and visibly a priority for senior management at 
Morgan Stanley. It’s great to see the progress we are 
making, but there is more to do.”
CEO of Morgan Stanley Bank International and  
Co-Head of the Loan Solutions Group

4.  Focus on Retention
Our internal Women’s Network, the Women’s Business 
Alliance, promotes career development, cross-business activity 
and ideas sharing through skills development programmes 
and access to inspirational leaders. Our Family Network 
provides networking, learning and development opportunities 
tailored to working parents, returning mothers and carers.
Our maternity coaching provides comprehensive support for 
women before, during and after their return from maternity 
leave. Additional training is provided for their managers on 
being proactively supportive. In 2017, we doubled paternity 
leave from two weeks to four and enhanced our shared 
parental leave. We offer a child/elder care policy of up to  
150 hours of backup care a year per dependent.
Considerable progress is being made to make formal and informal 
flexible working more accessible and visible, setting the tone 
from the top. Our efforts in this regard will be reinvigorated  
in 2018 with the launch of a Work Smart campaign. 

“As a parent, I’m proud that Morgan Stanley offers four 
weeks’ paternity leave and enhanced shared parental 
leave. I understand the importance of supporting 
our talent, especially during key periods of change in 
their lives. In my role on the Diversity Action Council 
representing Equities, I champion the uptake of our 
maternity coaching programme and manager training 
sessions, which provide essential tools and guidance 
before, during and after maternity leave.”
Head of European Special Situations and EMEA 
Diversity Action Council Representative for Equities

© 2018 Morgan Stanley 

     6

