 

 

St Philips Care Group 

Gender Pay Gap Report - 2017 

Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 
employees  are  required  to  publish  their  gender  pay  gap  under  the  Equality  Act  2010 
(Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017.  This  requires  six  calculations  and 
presenting the results that show the difference between the average earnings of men and 
women in our organisation.  

The calculations that such employers are required to show are as follows:  

1.  The Gender Profile of our workforce 
2.  Proportion of males to females in each pay quartile  
3.  Proportion of males to females who are paid bonus pay  
4.  Gender pay gap (median)  
5.  Gender bonus gap (median)  
6.  Gender pay gap (mean)  
7.  Gender bonus gap (mean) 

Introduction - What is the Gender Pay Gap and how is it calculated?  

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the average hourly pay received by 
men and women across the organisation. This report presents the information at the same 
given point of time that all organisations have been requested to use, which is on 5th  April 
2017.  

We are required to calculate and present our Gender Pay Gap in two different ways:  

The  median  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  midpoints  in  the  ranges  of  hourly 
earnings of all men and all women. So if we wanted to calculate the median pay for 99 men 
or women, we would need to rank their hourly earnings in order from lowest to highest and 
pick  the  middle-most  salary,  i.e.,  the  50th  person  out  of  99.  This  person  would  have  49 
people paid more than him or her, and 49 people paid less than him or her.  

The  mean  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  average  hourly  earnings  of  all  men  and  all 
women employed by Acorns. So if we wanted to calculate the mean hourly earnings for 99 
people, we would add up the hourly earnings of all 99 people, and then divide the total by 
99.  

The  median  is  included,  and  often  preferred, because  it  is  felt  to  remove  the  influence  of 
very high and very low pay and therefore more fairly represents typical hourly earnings. 

 

 

1. The Gender Profile of our workforce 

On 5 April 2017, just over 80% of our employees were female. While obviously a high figure, 
this proportion is not uncommon for a company like us operating in the care sector. We are 
confident that men and women are paid fairly and equally for the same or similar roles. 

 

 

2. The Proportion of males to females in each pay quartile  

The  below  charts  are  made  by  splitting  the  whole  workforce  into  four  equal  sized  bands 
based  on  hourly  pay,  from  highest  to  lowest.  The  percentage  of  men  and  women  is  then 
calculated for each band.  

 

    Upper Quartile 

          Upper Middle 

 

  Lower Middle  

       Lower Quartile 

 

The charts show that the percentage of women and men in our workforce in each quartile is 
very similar overall. In others words, we have a similar proportion of women and men in our 
highest paid roles as our lowest paid roles.  

 

3. 

Proportion of men to women who are paid bonus pay  

 

 

 

 

 

                      Proportion of Men who  
                           received a bonus  
 

 
 

 
 

           Proportion of Women who  
                    received a bonus 

4. 

5. 

 
6. 
 
 
7. 

Median Gender Pay Gap 
The Median pay gap is 0.6% 
 
Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
The Median pay gap for bonuses is 11.1% 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 
The Mean pay gap is 10.2% 

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
The Mean pay gap for bonuses is -3.3% 

The  statistics  above  demonstrate  that  the  pay  gap  between  men  and  women  is  not 
considered statistically significant; there are no pay differences between men and women 
occupying equivalent roles. The majority of our workforce is female, which is not unusual in 
the  care  sector,  and  the  rate  of  pay  is  based  on  other  factors  than  gender,  such  as 
experience, qualifications, job level, etc.  

 

 

 

