2017 
UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

IW GROUP SERVICES (UK) LIMITED

At IWG, we promote equality and fairness for everyone at all levels of our business. We recognise that gender 
diversity is important in creating a strong and sustainable business, and so we are working hard to create an 
environment which is desirable for everyone. We have a strong track record on equality initiatives, and these are 
embedded within our HR and operational processes. 

GENDER PAY GAP INFORMATION

Gender pay gap is defined as the difference between 
the mean or median hourly rate of pay that male and 
female employees receive. The mean pay gap is the 
difference between average hourly earnings of men 
and women. The median pay gap is the difference 
between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly earnings 
of men and women.

The information presented below has been prepared 
in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017. The information is 
based on employee data as at 5th April 2017.

Gender hourly pay gap

Gender bonus gap

MEAN

MEDIAN

37%

72%

24%

46%

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES 
RECEIVING A BONUS PAYMENT

Employees at most levels across the business are awarded 
a quarterly or annual bonus, dependent on performance.

Male

Female

63%

58%

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES IN 
EACH PAY QUARTILE

The below chart shows the gender split of roles, ordered 
into four equal quartiles from the lowest hourly pay group 
to the highest. It shows that we have a higher proportion of 
men in the upper quartile (ie higher hourly pay) roles, and 
a lower proportion of men in the lower quartile (ie lower 
hourly pay) roles.

26%

31%

25%

Lower

Lower 
middle
Upper 
middle

Upper

74%

69%

75%

57%

43%

Male

Female

WHY DO WE HAVE A GENDER PAY GAP?

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across the business.  
The difference in hourly pay results from the fact that we have a lower proportion of men in the lower scales,  
as well as a higher proportion of men in senior roles. The higher paid roles also attract higher bonus payments  
(in both percentage and absolute terms), which is why the bonus pay gap is higher than the hourly pay gap.

IW GROUP SERVICES (UK) LIMITED - 2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ADDRESS THE GENDER PAY GAP?

We recognise that having an increased proportion of men in our lower hourly paid roles within the organisation  
will improve our pay gap. In addition, we need to attract a greater proportion of women into our senior positions.

RECRUITMENT

It is our view that the gender pay gap is not a pay issue, but down to a lack of representation in certain roles. In 
fact, within our lowest hourly paid roles there is a lack of male representation, because the role attracts more 
female applicants than male. We will continue to recruit in a non-discriminatory manner, however we will work 
with internal and third party suppliers to ensure that these roles are advertised in a positive way that is attractive 
for both male and female applicants. We will also undertake an internal review to better understand why we are 
not receiving more applications from women for our senior roles. We are committed to supporting our diverse 
workforce through innovative recruitment methods. 

DEVELOPMENT

We will continue to review our internal development programmes and will look to create an internal mentoring 
programme for all employees and for female employees into senior roles. We will undertake a review of our 
internal policies in terms of working options and flexibility. When seeking talent for a senior leadership role, we 
will ensure that the applicant pool is expanded by reaching out to professional groups and employees through 
communication and succession planning tools.

Peter Gibson
Director, IW Group Services (UK) Limited

IW GROUP SERVICES (UK) LIMITED - 2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

