Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Buzzacott is required to publish an annual gender pay gap report in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017. We are delighted to publish our ﬁrst gender pay gap report and look forward to sharing our 
results each year going forward.

OUR RESULTS

10.3%

Mean Gender Pay Gap
The mean = the difference in  
the average hourly rate of pay 
between male and female 
members of staff

20.5% Median Gender Pay Gap

The median = the difference in 
mid-point hourly rate of pay 
between male and female 
members of staff

SALARY QUARTILES

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

44%

38%

57%

52%

56%

62%

43%

48%

Male

Female

The salary quartile data shows 
the proportion of males and 
females across the ﬁrm within 
each quartile when hourly rates 
of pay are ranked from lowest 
to highest.

30.6%

37.0%

Received a bonus = the % of males and females 
who received a bonus during the 12–month bonus 
period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017 inclusive

PAY GAP CALCULATIONS

The gender pay gap calculations show the difference between 
the mean or median earnings of males and females and is 
always expressed as a percentage of male earnings.

Equity Partners and Priority Share Partners are excluded from 
the ﬁgures in accordance with the Regulations but our 
Salaried Partners are included. 

26.2%

24.8%

Mean Gender 
Bonus Gap

Median Gender 
Bonus Gap

Our Salaried Partners signiﬁcantly impact our results. At our 
snapshot date, a higher proportion of Salaried Partners were 
long serving male members of the partner group, including 
some who were in the ﬁnal year/s before retirement.

BONUS GAP CALCULATIONS

The bonus gap calculations covers bonuses paid and 
received during the 12–month bonus period 6 April 2016 to 
5 April 2017 inclusive. They include a wide range of 
payments including bonuses awarded for an individual 
team member’s performance, commission received for 
referring new clients, recruitment bonuses received for 
referring new team members to join the ﬁrm and 
exceptional exam performance payments.

We have a high proportion of senior female staff (27%) 
receiving pro-rated bonuses due to them working 
part-time. Unlike the gender pay gap calculations, when 
calculating the bonus gap calculation we are not permitted 
to convert pro-rated bonuses paid to part-time employees 
to a full-time equivalent ﬁgure.  Instead, the calculation 
must use the actual amount of the bonus that is paid, 
which distorts our gender bonus gap.

As such, we:

•  carry out pay and beneﬁts audits at regular intervals;

•  provide clear equal pay guidance to all members of staff      

involved in pay reviews; and

•  evaluate job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure 

a fair structure.

Buzzacott is conﬁdent that its gender pay gap does not 
stem from paying men and women differently for the same 
or equivalent work but rather is the result of the roles in 
which men and women work within the ﬁrm and the 
salaries that these roles attract. 

We invest signiﬁcantly in the professional development of 
our people and actively encourage all team members to 
undertake professional qualiﬁcations and progress through 
different career paths with the ﬁrm.

BUZZACOT T AND ITS PEOPLE

Buzzacott is proud of its diverse workforce. In April 2017, 
52% of employees were female, 48% male. Nearly half of 
our teams are led by females and we are one of only eight 
top 50 accountancy ﬁrms with a female Managing Partner.

We are extremely supportive of, and actively encourage, 
ﬂexible working across the entire workforce with the aim 
of recruiting and retaining a diverse group of people.  Our 
recruitment practices are fair and promote diversity.  
Our most important criteria for successful recruitment 
selection are that candidates are a good cultural ﬁt and 
have values that align with ours – those of trust, 
approachability, specialism, a commitment to providing 
exceptional service and client focus.

Buzzacott is committed to the principle of equal 
opportunities and equal treatment for all members of staff, 
regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or 
civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, 
gender reassignment or disability. We are conﬁdent that we 
are an equal pay employer and that we pay our members of 
staff equally for the same or equivalent work.

I conﬁrm that the information in this statement is correct.

Amanda Francis

Managing Partner

