GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

“

Here at BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions we are very clear that diversity and inclusion is fundamental 
to our business development. It ensures that we remain flexible, more adaptive and have an even 
stronger and more successful future ahead of us. 

Our employee engagement survey tells us that the vast majority of our people believe the working 
environment within BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions embraces diversity of all kinds. 

We  welcome  these  differences  as  they  help  us  to  build  strong  teams  able  to  deliver  excellent 
customer service in a fast-paced and ever-changing market, adding value to our customers through 
innovative products and services. We are committed to achieving gender balance at all levels of 

our business.“

Understanding the gender pay gap
Is the gender pay gap the same as equal pay? 
No. They are two separate matters, as explained below.

What is the gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap concerns the hourly pay of all men who work in 
a company compared to the hourly pay of all women who work in the 
same company. It does not account for different types of jobs or levels 
of seniority.

What is equal pay?
Equal pay is when a man and a woman are paid the same for doing the 
same or similar work. We take our moral and legal responsibilities on 
equal pay seriously, and conduct reviews regularly to ensure salary and 
bonus decisions are fair and gender neutral. 

Jean-Michel Boyer    UK Country Manager 

How we calculate the mean difference

Total salaries 
for females

No. of female 
employees

Mean female
average pay

THE

DIFFERENCE 

=

Mean male
average pay

MEAN HOURLY PAY GAP

Total salaries 
for males

No. of male 
employees

How we calculate the median difference

Lowest 
hourly pay

Median  
hourly pay

Highest  
hourly pay

Lowest 
hourly pay

Median  
hourly pay

Highest  
hourly pay

THE

DIFFERENCE 

=

MEDIAN HOURLY PAY GAP

Results
Gender pay gap

Our mean  

hourly pay gap

31.9%

Gender bonus gap

Our mean  
bonus gap

50.6%

Our median  

hourly pay gap

21.9%

Our median 
bonus gap

0.5%

Population by quartile 
Pay quartiles are calculated by ranking the hourly pay of all staff, then splitting the range  
into four equal quartiles and calculating the proportion of men and woman in each quartile. 
The higher proportion of men in the upper quartiles reflects the fact that there are more men 
than women in senior positions, which attract higher rates of pay.

Lower

Lower middle

There are two main reasons for the gender pay gap both across the financial services 
industry and at BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions: 
£  There  are  more  men  than  women  in  senior  positions,  and  women  are  under-

represented in sales roles. 

£  The  higher  rates  of  pay  in  these  areas  relative  to  other  positions,  significantly 
increases the average male pay both in the market and at BNP Paribas Leasing 
Solutions.

Here at BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions, 100% of our team receive a bonus aligned  
to business objectives. This is in line with our aim to sustain a ‘one team’ ethos. 
Overall, we have a significantly higher mean bonus gap than the hourly pay gap.  
This is because:
£  Bonus amounts tend to increase with seniority and we currently have more men 

than women in senior roles.

£  We  have  more  men  than  women  in  sales,  which  typically  attract  larger  bonus 

opportunities.

£  More of our part-time employees are women. The calculation for the bonus gap does 

not account for bonuses being pro-rated for part-time employees.

Proportion of each gender receiving a bonus 
Women receiving  

Men receiving  
a bonus

a bonus

66%

34%

70%

30%

99%

92%

Upper middle

Upper

Declaration
I confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of the 
snapshot date 5 April 2017.

63%

37%

32%

68%

Jean-Michel Boyer     UK Country Manager 

At BNP Paribas Leasing Solutions we are proud that 57% of our employees are women. Diversity is 
at the heart of our company. That’s why we’re committed to developing a diverse workforce and 
providing an inclusive environment in which everyone can thrive. 
Within our business, talent is the key criteria for success. However, we do recognise that greater 
representation of women at senior levels is critical in order to achieve a more diverse and balanced 
organisation, that is reflective of our own values and those of our customers. 
We are working hard to remove the barriers for women within our business as well as striving to 
increase diversity in all areas.

“

Rachel Appleton    HR Director

What we are already doing to address the gender pay gap

Recruitment

Career

Culture

£	 Today, 57% of our workforce are women.
£		Ensure gender-balanced shortlists for all internal 

and external vacancies.

£ 

 Host events and workshops through our MixCity 
Network to address gender equality and provide 
career development advice and guidance.

£ 

£ 

£ 

 Support women with family responsibilities 
through our Flexible Working Policy, Shared Parental 
Leave Policy and enhanced maternity benefits.
 Focus specifically on gender equality and the 
needs of parents and carers through our employee 
network groups.
 Foster an inclusive environment through diversity 
events.

What’s planned to address the gender pay gap

Recruitment

Career

Culture

£	 Ensure equal gender representation for all entry 

level positions.

£	 Instruct our recruitment partners to diversify our 
recruitment pipelines and have gender-balanced 
shortlists for all senior roles.

£	 Create a Sales Academy to encourage women to 

enter and succeed in a sales environment.

£ 
£ 

£ 

 Intensify our support of working parents.
 Ensure all new managers are trained to manage 
diverse teams, to identify and reduce bias and 
lead inclusively.
 Encourage men to take Shared Parental Leave, 
use our flexible working options and champion 
greater gender equality.

£   Sign the Women in Finance Charter, which 

makes public our commitment to, and progress 
towards, greater gender equality. This includes 
setting targets for representation of women in 
senior roles and holding leaders accountable.

£   Make it easier for women to identify internal 
opportunities. Simultaneously, provide hiring 
managers more visibility on the skills and 
capabilities of women across the organisation.

£   Roll out a mentoring programme to support talent 

in the organisation.

