Müller UK & Ireland
Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

About 
Müller UK & Ireland

Müller UK & Ireland is wholly owned by Unternehmensgruppe Theo Müller (the Müller Group). 
The business is the 7th most chosen FMCG brand in the UK and develops, manufactures 
and markets a wide range of branded and private label dairy products, made with milk 
from British farmers. 
Müller exists to bring everyday moments of pleasure to their consumers 
and employs around 10,000 people across three business units: 
Müller Yogurt & Desserts, Müller Milk & Ingredients and Milk & More.

Müller Yogurt & Desserts 
Based in Market Drayton, Müller Yogurt & Desserts is the 
UK’s leading yogurt manufacturer, responsible for major 
brands such as Müllerlight, Müller Corner and Müller Rice. 
It also produces, at production facilities in Minsterley near 
Shrewsbury, chilled desserts under licence from Mondelez 
International. Müller Yogurt & Desserts also supplies the UK 
private label yogurt market from a state of the art yogurt 
facility in Telford, Shropshire. 

Müller Milk & Ingredients
Müller Milk & Ingredients is Britain’s largest producer of 
fresh milk, cream, butter and ingredients. With a network 
of dairies and depots servicing customers throughout the 
country, the business produces skimmed, semi-skimmed, 
whole, flavoured milk and brands including FRijj. It has the 
capacity to produce salted, unsalted and lactic butter each 
year for both the domestic and international markets. 

Milk & More
Müller acquired Milk & More in 2015 and it is the UK’s largest 
milkman business. The business delivers a range of local 
products, six days a week, to more than 500,000 homes 
across the UK, via a network of 57 local fulfilment centres. 
The milkman is arguably the original home delivery service, 
with milk delivery going back more than 150 years; 
Müller is determined to ensure that this great British tradition 
continues to flourish.

The British Athletics & Athletics Ireland Teams
Müller is an Official Supporter of the British Athletics and 
Athletics Ireland teams. With branding and activation 
rights for events in 2018 and 2019, Müller aims to empower 
consumers to make active and healthy lifestyle choices.

OFFICIAL YOGURT

OFFICIAL DESSERTS

Introduction from the 
Müller UK & Ireland 
Executive Team

This year, for the first time, all large companies employing 
250 employees or more in Great Britain are required to report on their 
gender pay gap. As a significant employer and one of the UK’s best loved 
brands we welcome this step. 
Across the UK, the median hourly earnings for women are 18.4%* lower than 
men. Within the manufacturing sector specifically, the gap is 23.1%**. 
Across our UK business the pay gap is 1%; this is significantly lower than 
the UK average and a strong result in our sector. We have always been and 
remain committed to giving equal opportunities to all our employees and 
will continue to do the right things to make that happen. 

Our people
Overall in the UK we have an 85% male 
v. 15% female split across our workforce. 
This is typical of a business within our sector, 
as is the fact that 70% of our colleagues 
work in production or logistics roles, 
where the balance is predominantly male 
(92% v. 8%). Whilst we are working to 
attract more women into these areas, 
it takes time to address this. The picture is 
different in our office environments, with a 
better balance of 68% male v. 32% female, 
largely because these types of working 
environments tend to attract both men 
and women.

Our future
Müller is a brand with a great ethos, 
great people and great products. Most 
importantly, we’re a brand with great 
ambition for the future. To build on our 
success to date and propel further growth, 
we must continue to have a culture that 
values the fantastic contribution that a 
diverse workforce can bring.
As with any data, its value is in the 
awareness it raises, the questions it 
prompts, and the action we take. These 
statistics provide a valuable means to keep 
challenging what we do to create the right 
opportunities for everyone at every level, in 
every area of our business.

Andrew McInnes
Managing Director
Müller Milk & Ingredients

Bergen Merey
Managing Director
Müller Yogurt & Desserts

Patrick Mueller
Managing Director
Milk & More

Our data 
Across the Müller UK & Ireland Group we are 
reporting on four sets of data. The first set 
of data relates to the entire 
UK organisation†: the three core business 
units described in the introduction and the 
central support functions. Although we 
don’t have to publish data for all entities 
grouped together, we have taken the 
decision to do so as we believe this is the 
most representative internal and external 
measure of a company’s gender pay gap.
The other sets of data relate to our 
three legal entities, which make up our  
UK & Ireland business. Whilst we don’t 
have to report on TM Telford Ltd, given we 
employ fewer than 250 people there, 
we have decided to do so in the interest 
of transparency. 

“We must continue to have a 
culture that values the fantastic 
contribution that a diverse 
workforce can bring.”

*  Office of National Statistics 2017 
**  Trailblazing Transparency: Mending the Gap Report 2015
† 

 Please note employees in Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland 
are not included in our calculations.

What is the 
Gender Pay Gap?

The gender pay gap measures the difference in average pay between men and women 
employed in a business, regardless of seniority. It should not be confused with equal pay, 
which would involve direct comparison of two people or groups of people carrying out the same, 
similar or equivalent work.

Why has Gender Pay Gap Reporting been introduced?
Gender pay gap reporting is a valuable tool for assessing levels of equality in the workplace, 
female and male participation and how effectively talent is being maximised amongst employers. 
It raises awareness around differences in pay based on gender and enables employers to dig into 
the differences to better understand their workforce.  The challenge in our organisation and across 
the UK is to reduce, and ultimately eliminate, any gender pay gap over time.

The Mean Gender Pay Gap
The mean is the difference between 
average hourly pay for men v. average 
hourly pay for women expressed as a 
percentage of the male figure. 

%

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap
This is the difference between the mean 
bonuses paid to men and women  in 
the 12 months leading up to April 2017 
expressed as a percentage of the mean 
bonus received by men during that 
period.  

%

The Median Gender Pay Gap
The median represents the middle point 
of a population. If you separately lined up 
all the women in Müller and all the men, 
the median pay gap is the difference 
between the hourly pay rate for the 
middle woman compared to that of the 
middle man, expressed as a percentage 
of the male figure.  

%

Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap
This is the difference between the 
mid-point bonuses paid to men and 
women in the 12 months leading up to 
April 2017, expressed as a percentage 
of the median bonus received by men 
during that period. 

%

The proportion of 
males and females 
receiving a bonus 
payment

%

%

These figures show the 
population of women who 
received a bonus payment in 
the 12 months leading up to 
April 2017 and the population 
of men who received a bonus 
payment in the 12 months 
leading up to April 2017.

Proportion of males 
& females in each 
Quartile band
Quartiles are calculated by 
listing the rates of pay for all 
employees across the business 
from lowest to highest, before 
splitting that list into four equal-
sized groups and calculating 
the percentage of males and 
females in each group.  The 
quartiles (from the lowest to 
highest) are called the lower 
quartile, the lower middle 
quartile, the upper middle 
quartile, and the upper quartile.

££££

Upper Quartile

£££

Upper Middle Quartile

££

Lower Middle Quartile

£

Lower Quartile

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%

%%%%This is based on the payment which includes the date 5 April 2017.This is based on the payment which includes the date 5 April 2017.What is theGender Pay Gap?Aliquam tristique dui quis metus interdum egestas. Vestibulum at tortor cursus, suscipit lorem ut, finibus lectus. Aliquam mattis enim ut dui porta imperdiet. Donec mi diam, iaculis at posuere id, aliquam at justo. Ut risus nulla, mattis eu tincidunt vel, semper vel odio.These figures confirm the percentage of men and women out of the total populationthat received a bonus payment within the preceding 12 months to 5 April 2017.This set of calculations represents the percentage of men and women that fall into each of the quartile pay bands. All pay rates are sorted from highest to lowest and split into four equal groups called quartiles. The quartiles(from the lowest to highest)are called the lower quartile,the lower middle quartile,the upper middle quartile,and the upper quartile.Median Bonus Gender Pay GapMean Bonus Gender Pay GapThe Proportion ofmales and femalesreceiving a bonuspaymentThe Median Gender Pay GapThe comparison of the mid-pointvalue of pay for men vs the midpointvalue of pay for women expressedas a percentage of difference.Proportion of males& females in eachQuartile band%%%%%%%%Upper Middle QuartileUpper QuartileLower Middle QuartileLower QuartileThe Mean Gender Pay GapThe comparison of average payfor men vs average pay for womenexpressed as a percentageof difference.%%The comparison of mid-point bonuses paid to men vs mid-point bonuses paid to women expressed as a percentage of difference.This is based on any bonus payments withinthe preceding 12 months to 5 April 2017.The comparison of average bonuses paid to men vs average bonuses paid to women expressed as a percentageof difference.This is based on any bonus payments within the preceding 12 months to5 April 2017.Müller UK & Ireland 
Gender Pay Statistics

Müller is a top ten household brand in the UK; we are the country’s biggest milk and ingredients 
business and one of the leading yogurt manufacturers, with well-known brands such as Müller Corner, 
Müllerlight, Müller Rice, Müller Bliss Corner and FRijj. In addition we have recently relaunched 
what is the UK’s largest milk delivery service, Milk & More. With colleagues in over 80 locations, 
the three core businesses, Müller Milk & Ingredients; Müller Yogurt & Desserts and Milk & More are 
supported by central service functions. Across the UK 85% of our colleagues are male, 15% are female.

Mean 
Pay Gap 

70% of colleagues across our 
business are on a fixed rate pay 
scale and, therefore, are paid the 
same rate of pay for their role at 
that location. This is reflected in 
the 1% pay gap.

Difference 
in Mean 
Bonus Pay

Overall, men and women are 
paid, on average, a similar 
bonus payment.

1% 

Male mean higher

Median 
Pay Gap

The median pay gap for 
women in our business is 
2% higher than for their 
male colleagues.

-2%Female median higher 

-7%Female mean higher 

Difference 
in Median 
Bonus Pay

For the women who received 
a bonus, it was generally 
higher because women in 
our population tend to be in 
higher paid management or 
specialist roles, compared to 
the majority of men working 
in lower paid manufacturing 
or logistics roles.

-56%Female median higher 

Proportion of males & females 
in receipt of a bonus

The proportion of males and females in receipt of a bonus is similar.

Quartile Bands

There are more men in our business, 
which is reflective of the sector we operate in, 
but there is a consistent proportion of women 
across the four quartiles.

££££

Upper Quartile

£££

Upper Middle Quartile

££

Lower Middle Quartile

£

Lower Quartile

87%

13%

88%

12%

86%

14%

82%

18%

29%

27%

Proportion of males & femalesin each Quartile band82%18%86%14%88%12%87%13%Based on mean pay for menvs mean pay for womenBased on median pay for menvs median pay for womenProportion of males & femalesin receipt of a bonusMuller UKGender Pay StatisticsAliquam tristique dui quis metus interdum egestas. Vestibulum at tortor cursus, suscipit lorem ut, finibus lectus. Aliquam mattis enim ut dui porta imperdiet. Donec mi diam, iaculis at posuere id, aliquam at justo. Ut risus nulla, mattis eu tincidunt vel, semper vel odio.Difference inMedian PayDifferencein MeanBonus PayBased on median bonus payfor men vs median bonus payfor womenBased on mean bonus payfor men vs mean bonus payfor women-56% Female median higher-7% Female mean higherDifferencein MedianBonus PayDifference inMean Pay1%-2% Female median higher27%29%Upper Middle QuartileUpper QuartileLower Middle QuartileLower QuartileAbout 
Our Entities

Müller UK & Ireland Group LLP
The employee population within this legal entity 
work mainly in operational and driver roles, 
supporting our three core UK businesses. 
The majority of colleagues, 75%, are paid a 
‘fixed rate’, therefore are paid the same rate 
of pay for their role at that location.

Müller Service Limited
Müller Service Limited includes the service functions 
which support core business operations across 
the UK. Functions include IT, HR, Procurement, 
Tax, Legal & Compliance and Communications. 
Colleagues within Müller Service are in head office 
or shared service roles. Within Müller Service women 
make up 62% of the workforce, compared with 
38% men.  

TM Telford Dairy Limited
At our state of the art TM Telford site we primarily 
produce products for our Private Label yogurt 
business. Whilst the headcount number for this 
business does not meet the statutory minimum for 
reporting, we wanted to include this business for 
completeness. The majority of colleagues at this site 
are in operational roles, within production. 

Breaking down 
Our Results

Müller UK & Ireland LLP Müller Service Limited

TM Telford Limited

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

Difference in Mean Bonus

Difference in Median Bonus

Proportion of males and 
females in receipt of 
a bonus

6%

3%

16%

9%

35%

33%

51%

18%

4%

8%

-33%

-22%

Female 25%

Female 29%

Female 48%

Male 29%

Male 37%

Male 52%

Quartile Splits

Female

Male

Female

Male

Female

Male

Lower Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

14%

9%

9%

11%

86%

91%

91%

89%

78%

71%

55%

40%

22%

29%

45%

60%

22.5%

77.5%

17.5%

82.5%

10%

12%

90%

88%

Great brands are built 
from the inside out

At Müller we strive for excellence in everything we do, to provide 
‘everyday moments of pleasure’ for everyone and put a smile on everyone’s face! 
And our people come first. We believe our brand is the sum of our people and the experiences they create: 
ordinary people achieving extraordinary things. To enable this we need to provide the right support and 
create opportunities for everyone. 

What are we doing? 
We remain committed to continue to attract the 
best talent. We believe in giving everyone equal 
opportunities across our business and our focus is 
to further develop and promote colleagues.
Career progression for all colleagues, regardless 
of gender, has always been, and remains, a priority 
for us. We are working to provide clear career paths 
and targeted development opportunities, 
particularly in our larger Manufacturing and 
Engineering environments.
We have recently introduced Leadership & 
Management programmes, across all areas of 
the business, designed to support colleagues to 
progress their careers into more senior roles. 

This year we will be rolling out an unconscious bias 
e-learning module to help colleagues understand 
their own unconscious bias and the impact it 
can have.
In 2017 we ran two apprenticeship programmes 
to support colleagues progress their careers. 
We have already increased the number of 
programmes to eight, with a further nine 
planned in 2018. Attracting more women into 
our apprenticeship schemes will also be a focus 
this year.  

Disclaimer 
We confirm that the data and 
information reported are accurate and in line 
with the UK Government’s Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017
Müller UK & Ireland Executive Team

