2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

®

What is gender pay reporting? 
The gender pay gap measures the difference between the average pay of all men and women in a company. From April 2018, any 
company with more than 250 employees is required to publish their gender pay information.  
Often the gender pay gap is confused with unequal pay. Unequal pay is when one gender is paid less than the other for the 
same work,  unlike the gender pay gap, which measures the difference in earnings at the company level, which is calculated  by 
comparing the pay of employees on a case by case basis.

What is the gender pay gap at Healthcare at Home?

Difference between men and women:

Gender pay gap 

Gender bonus gap 

median -3.8%

mean 17.9%

The proportion of employees in Healthcare at 
Home receiving a bonus is:

96.6%

97.4%

median 23.5% mean 37.1%

Proportion of males and females per earnings quartile:

Lower

Lower 
middle

20.3%

37.1%

Upper 
middle

15.2%

Upper

38.7%

79.7%

62.9%

84.8%

61.3%

Females

Males

Supporting Information 
With a large proportion of our workforce being female (72.2%) the mean figure (17.9%) may present a misleading picture. A small 
number of higher paid males is enough to inflate the average male salary.
The median pay indicator is a more reliable measure of the earnings differential at Healthcare at Home, putting the difference at 
3.8% higher, in favour of females.  
A higher proportion of our women work in part time roles. While this bears no impact on women’s hourly basic pay, this may 
impact other elements of the gender pay calculation.
Another point to note is, where eligible, 10% more females choose the option of a company car over car allowance. Car allowance 
is included in the gender pay calculation, however company car value is not. 

What is Healthcare at Home doing to address its gender pay gap?
While a lot of the difference in where our men and women work comes down to their different career choices, we 
care about building an environment where all employees have access to the same opportunities.  We’ll continue 
our work towards this in three areas:
1.     Recruitment – ensuring we select the right person for the job, through a fair and balanced assessment 

process

2.    Development opportunities – develop the capabilities of all employees to further progress and enable 
promotion from within and to introduce a management development programme for leaders at all levels

3.   Career opportunities - providing opportunities for people to develop their career at all levels

Statement 
I confirm that the information and 
data provided is accurate and in 
line with mandatory requirements:

 John Bradshaw
Legal Director and Group Company Secretary

