 

Broadridge Financial Solutions Ltd: Gender Pay Gap Report 

The gender pay gap highlights differences in average pay between men and women.  It covers all 
roles across all levels within Broadridge Financial Solutions Ltd (“Broadridge UK”).   

The report shows differences in the average earnings of men and women and is based on a 
comparison of hourly pay rates and using rules as set out by the UK government on the “snapshot” 
date of 5th April 2017. 

Broadridge UK has common traits with other financial services companies with 

  More men at senior levels today in nearly all of our groups 
  Our largest population works within technology roles with more men than women applying 

for this type of role 

  We have a higher % of the female population in operational and administration roles when 

compared to the male population 

Please note that the gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.  Equal pay is concerned with the 
pay differences between men and women who carry out the same or similar jobs.  Gender pay gap is 
agnostic to role.    

We are committed to continue to encourage more women to join Broadridge and then promote 
them through the organisation. Through this publication we note the actions we have undertaken in 
recent years. 

Gender Pay Gap  

Mean Gender Pay Gap = 10.35 %               Median Pay Gap = 37.6% 

 
The mean (or average) pay gap principally reflects the fact that there are fewer women in senior 
roles today.  We discuss later some of our initiatives here. 
 

The median (or mid-point) reflects the distribution of roles within our company.  The mid-point is 
determined by ordering all pay and selecting the person in the middle.  This will be harder to 
influence as it is our large population of technology roles in the UK entity that is the main driver 
here.   Our mid-point for men is someone in an experienced IT role.   Our mid-point for women is 
someone in an operational role. 

The breakdown of this information in quartiles helps understand better our population and why we 
see such variations. 

 

 

 

 

Pay Quartiles 

Percentage of men and women in each of 4 pay quartiles   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1st (Lower Quartile)  

 

2nd (Lower middle quartile) 

3rd (Upper middle quartile) 

4th Upper quartile 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

63.08%  Men  36.92% Women 

62.5% Men 

37.5%  Women 

84.38%  Men  15.63% Women 

82.81%  Men  17.19% Women 

 
 

This data highlights the current shortage of women in the 3rd and 4th pay quartiles. 
 

 
Broadridge strives to hire women across all roles and in particular in entry level IT roles.  We have 
yet to be successful in hiring women in numbers into our IT functions.  We continue to push this.  
Initiatives have included ensuring our advertising is not biased unconsciously towards males, 
attending universities where a higher population of women in technology roles exist, and training 
our attendees to deliver the right messages.  We need women in entry level roles across our 
functions so they can be promoted through the organisation as their careers grow and we can 
address our senior level balance. 

 

Additionally, in 2017/2018, we are offering women-only leadership programmes to encourage our 
female mid-managers to develop into the senior roles in the company.   This includes external and 
internal mentorship and training. 

Bonus Pay Gap 

Bonus pay includes all bonus, commission and stock grants or payments made during the period 6th 
April 2016 – 5th April 2017.  

Given there are fewer women than men in senior roles, there is a consequence to bonuses. 

Mean bonus pay gap  
 
Median bonus pay gap 

49.13% 

83.12% 

The mean bonus pay gap is calculated by dividing the average female bonus into the average male 
bonus payment.  The median pay gap is calculated by finding the midpoint of the bonus payments. 

 

Bonus takes into account our world class service, management by objective (MBO), and commission 
based schemes.   Everyone is eligible for world class service which is a fixed amount.    Based on role 
and seniority in that role, an associate may qualify for the MBO scheme instead of world class 
service.   MBO is set as a % of salary.   Commission payments are based on centrally managed plans. 

The mid-point for women falls just above the World Class bonus payment band.  The mid-point for 
men is within the MBO eligible roles of our firm.   This drives a significant difference in the median 
results.    

Given the current balance of our business and more males in senior roles, the variations shown 
above were to be expected.  We have carefully reviewed the output to ensure that the results are 
reflective of this and not an equal pay concern.  

Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 

If there were no leavers or hires in the year then our proportion of men and women receiving bonus 
would be 100% for each.    The results below reflect purely timing of new hires and the bonus 
payment cycle. 

 Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus 

Percentage of men 
 
Percentage of women 

85.64% 
79.45% 

 

 

Summary 

Our pay gap and bonus pay gap is driven by the profile of our business and associated roles.  The 
profile of our results are consistent with other UK firms with similar business mixes and we are 
reviewing their initiatives and plans to find the “best of the best” approaches. 

We will continue to push to hire women into all roles.  If we hire externally for mid-level to senior 
roles then we task our agents to identify qualified, diverse candidates as part of their own 
qualification to remain a supplier with Broadridge. We have initiatives to develop women’s careers 
internally: to help them either obtain management roles or further progress their career paths.   In 
2017/2018 this includes our first women-only leadership programme. 

Finally, we have asked our people for their ideas on how we can improve our record as we strive to 
balance our workforce in the coming years.  

Tom Carey 

 

President, Broadridge International  
For and on behalf of Broadridge Financial Solutions Ltd  

 

28th February 2018. 

