 

Vibrance Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017  

 

As part of the Government’s introduction of legislation that made it a statutory requirement 
for organisations with 250 or more employees to report annually on their gender pay, 
Vibrance has undertaken an extensive Gender Pay audit and has published the results of 
this work on both the organisation and government websites within one calendar year of 
April 5th 2017 as required. 

In line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 this 
Vibrance report covers the ‘snapshot’ date of April 5th 2017 and comprises of calculations 
that show the difference between the average earnings of men to women as at April 5th 
2017.   

Vibrance workforce by gender 

Vibrance is a diverse organisation with a predominantly female workforce and we are 
therefore confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Vibrance understands it is unlawful to pay people 
unequally because they are a man or a woman.  

As at April 5th 2017 the workforce comprised of 276 females (77%) and 82 Males (23%)  

Mean Gender Pay  

As at April 5th 2017 the Vibrance average (mean) hourly pay for females was £11.05 and 
average (mean) hourly pay for males was £11.43 
 
This means that the Vibrance mean gender pay gap is 3.35% - i.e. the mean pay for males 
was 3.35% more than the mean for females. The Vibrance mean gender pay gap is 
significantly lower than that within the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) which 
sits at t 17.4% and the government Equalities Office (November 2016) which sits at 18%.    
 
Median Gender Pay Gap 
 
As at April 5th 2017 the Vibrance median hourly pay for females was £9.50 and the median 
hourly pay for males £9.50 
 
This means that Vibrance has a median gender pay gap of 0%– i.e. both male and female 
employees received equal median pay. The Vibrance median gender pay gap is therefore, 
significantly lower than that within the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) which 
sits at 18.4%.   
 

Bonus Pay Gap 

Vibrance did not make bonus payments to staff and is therefore unable to provide gender 
pay gap comparison data as at April 5th 2017.  

 

 

Pay across Quartiles by gender as at April 5th 2017 

Table 1 

Band 

Males 

Females  Description 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them at or below the lower 
quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but 
at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the median but at or 
below the upper quartile  

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the upper quartile  

12% 

88% 

33% 

67% 

26% 

74% 

20% 

80% 

A 

B 

C 

D 

 

The figures set out in Table 1 have been calculated using the standard methodologies used 
in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Table 1 depicts Vibrance's workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly 
pay rates, with band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and 
band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender 
pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each band. However, 
within Vibrance, where 77% of it’s workforce are female and 23% are male, both bands A 
and D have a higher than average percentage of female employees at 88% and 80% 
respectively while bands B and C have a higher than average percentage of male 
employees at 33% and 26% respectively. 
 
Key underlying causes of Vibrance gender pay gap 
 
Vibrance employs a below average proportion of male employees in its residential services 
when compared to the percentage of male Vibrance employees throughout the organisation. 
  
Vibrance recognises that the provision of personal care in our services present challenges 
that would necessitate a predominantly female workforce and are comfortable that this 
disparity reflects the needs of the users of our service. The significant majority of our 
services which are based in areas that do not attract London Weighting Allowance are 
residential services and therefore an above average proportion of our female employees are 
employed in areas which do not attract London Weighting Allowance. 
 
Conclusions and Actions 
 
Vibrance does have a small mean gender pay gap of 3.35% but no median gender pay gap 
(0%) because both male and female employees receive equal median pay. 
 

 

We have analysed these statistics and understand that the reason for the mean gender pay 
gap is: 
 

1.  A higher proportion of women working in our services in Essex who do not receive 

the London Weighting Allowance  

2.  A higher proportion of men working in our services in London who do receive the 

London Weighting  Allowance 

 
The Board of Trustees are not complacent, and are committed to doing everything that it can 
to reduce this gap.  
 
We acknowledge that having a workforce made up of 77% women does not reflect the 
gender split of our service users which is 50/50 and we are attracting more male staff into 
the social care sector. Once achieved this will, as a secondary benefit, correct our small 
gender pay gap. 
 
We are achieving this by: 

  Targeted recruitment particular aimed at young men and older men seeking a career 

change 

  Marketing a career in Vibrance to traditionally hard to reach groups including groups 

as featured in the Equality Act 2010 under protected characteristics.  

  Having our Service Users drive our recruitment campaigns in their local areas  
  Review our Diversity Policy and Diversity Action Plan  
  Emphasising the importance of attitude and values , above experience, in our 

recruitment processes 

  Establishing a clear career pathway within Vibrance with an emphasis on personal 

and professional growth and development  

 
I, Paul Allen, Chief Executive, confirm that the information in this statement is true and 
correct.  
 
Signed  
Date 
 
 
 

Paul Allen 
March 29th 2018   

