                   Home About us About us Our History Our Locations Our Brands CSR CSR Recycling Modern Slavery Act Gender Pay Gap reporting Our Charity work Risk Compliance Tax Media Careers Careers Our roles Professional Services Warehouse Contact Centre Working here Training & Development Benefits Our Values & Culture Current vacancies Contact us Gender Pay Gap reporting     Freemans plc recognises that a diverse workforce which is truly reflective of the marketplace it serves is essential for us to understand and exceed the needs of our customers. For over 100 years our companies and brands have been at the forefront of home shopping delivering quality products and exceptional service. We work hard to attract the very best talent, develop our workforce and create a culture of fairness and integrity for our people and our customers. Our Employees Overall our workforce is gender balanced, 52% of all staff are female along with 40% of our directors. Most of our gap is largely due to a greater proportion of men at our senior management level. The average length of service is 12 years across the business and 14 years at leadership levels. This gives us great strength in terms of experience however we recognise the challenges it creates for internal progression. Our Numbers Women’s hourly rate is 25.2% lower than men’s. Women’s median hourly rate is 27.3% lower than men’s. Women’s mean bonus pay is 54.9% lower than men’s. Women’s median bonus pay is 28.6% lower than men’s. Our Plan The gender pay gap measures differences between the average earnings of men and women across the organisation irrespective of grade, seniority or position. It is not the same as equal pay which ensures that men and women are paid the same for equal work of equal value. FGH has processes and policies to ensure our approach to pay and reward is based on fairness. Our values and our policies ensure that our staff are treated fairly and equally. We recognise that we have an overall gap and that this is principally caused by a higher percentage of males in our senior management grades and a greater proportion of females in more junior non-management grades. We focus on developing our talent from within and have invested heavily in training and development to support this. Although we are proud that our people choose to stay with us for a long time we recognise this can limit the progression opportunities within the company.  To address this we are focussed on growing our business and using new technology platforms to create exciting new opportunities over time. We are also proud to have significant female representation in our executive and an overall gender balance in our workforce. Through effective recruitment, selection and training we will endeavour to maintain this. I confirm the data published in this report is accurate. John Hinchcliffe Chief Executive Officer  Recycling  Modern Slavery Act  Gender Pay Gap reporting  Our Charity work  Risk Compliance  Tax  Tweets about from:FreemansOnline OR from:grattanonline OR from:Swimwear365 OR from:Curvissa OR from:bonprixUK OR from:LookagainUK OR from:Kaleidoscope_UK OR from:LASCANA OR from:Witt_UK OR from:@fgh_uk -filter:nativeretweets   © Freemans Grattan Holdings LTD 2018 Freemans Grattan Holdings LTD, Freemans PLC & Grattan PLC, Registered in England & Wales nos. 3781251, 321643 and 249001. Privacy & Security Cookies Policy Equal Opportunities     