 

Employee Communication: Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
 
Nonsuch & Wallington Education Trust (NWET) is an employer required by law to carry out Gender 
Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. An 
employer must comply with the regulations for any year where they have a ‘headcount’ of 250 or 
more employees on the ‘snapshot date’. On 31st March 2017, NWET had 299 employees for the 
purposes of this calculation. 
 
Gender Pay Reporting involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it does not involve publishing data on 
individual employees. 
 
We are required to publish the results on our own website(s) and on a government website - 
https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Viewing/search-results.  We must do this within one calendar 
year of the ‘snapshot date’. 
 
We can use these results to assess: 

the levels of gender equality in our workplace 
the balance of male and female employees at different levels 

 
 
  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded. 

 
The challenge in our organisation and across Great Britain is to eliminate any gender pay gap.   
 
NWET is able to report a 2% difference in the mean hourly rate of pay and a 7% difference in the 
median hourly rate of pay, together with a well balanced workforce at every level.  The differences 
identified are acceptable, reflect the large number of female staff opting for flexible and part time 
work as invigilators, cover supervisors and the like, and give no cause for concern. NWET continues 
to have structured Teaching Pay Scales and Support Staff Pay Scales that are not gender specific. 
 
You can find out more about Gender Pay Reporting by visiting www.acas.org.uk/genderpay.  
 
Gender Pay Reporting requires our organisation to make calculations based on employee gender, 
which we establish using our existing HR and payroll records. All employees can confirm and update 
their records if they choose to by contacting the NWET HR Manager. 
 
Our Gender Pay Reporting analysis, as at March 2017, can be found on the following page. 
 
 
 
Jane Burton 
Chief Executive Officer 
Nonsuch & Wallington Education Trust 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting Analysis 2017 
 
The data below is calculated using a snapshot of payroll data at March 2017.  Certain zero hours 
employees were not included in the data collection for this month, due to the irregular nature of 
their pay. 
 

 

 

Number of employees 
 
 
1.  Difference in mean hourly rate of pay  
 

2.  Difference in median hourly rate of pay 
 

3.  Difference in mean bonus pay 
 
4.  Difference in median bonus pay 
 
5. 
 
6.  Employees by pay quartile 

 Percentage of employees who received bonus pay 

 

 

Upper Quartile (i.e. highest paid) 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile (i.e. lowest paid) 

Male 

61 

(20%) 

Female 

238 
(80%) 

2% 

(meaning that the mean hourly pay 

for a female is 2% less than the 

mean hourly pay for a male) 

 

7% 

(meaning that the median hourly pay 

for a female is 7% less than the 
median hourly pay for a male) 

 

0% 

0% 

0% 

 

21% 

23% 

17% 

20% 

0% 

 

79% 

 

77% 

 

83% 

 

80% 

 

Published details can be found on the GOV.UK Gender Pay Reporting website  

 https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Viewing/search-results 

 

2 

