2017 gender pay 
gap report

I confirm the accuracy of the data we have reported and 
also that we are working to reduce our gender pay gap.

The PCMS Group Ltd is committed to recruiting, 
developing, promoting and rewarding individuals based 
on their abilities.  We recognise the importance of 
creating opportunities which are available to everyone 
and are intent on making PCMS a great place to be for 
talented, dedicated individuals who are passionate 
about delighting our customers.  

We are also committed to paying men and women 
equally for equivalent work; however the greater 
proportion of men than women in senior roles creates a 
gender pay gap.

We are working hard to address the imbalance and are 
trying to attract and develop more females into what 
has traditionally been a male dominated industry.  This 
will obviously take some time to achieve but our 
continued commitment to personal and career 
development, apprenticeships, undergraduate and 
graduate schemes are some of the things we are doing 
to help reduce our gender pay gap in the future.

Tony Houldsworth, Group Chief Executive Officer

FM 14843

IS 589268

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap – this is the difference 
between the average of all earnings paid 
to male and female employees in the 
organisation.  This is different from equal 
pay which is paying the same salary for 
the same work.  

The mean gender pay gap is the difference 
between the mean hourly rate of pay of 
male employees and the mean hourly rate 
of pay of female employees.

The median gender pay gap is the 
difference between the median hourly 
rate of pay of male employees and the 
median hourly rate of pay for female 
employees.

Pay quartiles
Proportion of men and women in each 
pay quartile (%) Male     Female 

26% 

17% 

74% 

83% 

Lower quartile

Lower middle

12% 

18% 

88% 

82% 

Upper middle

Upper 

How does PCMS perform?
Our Mean pay gap is 8.81% - this means 
that the average of all earnings paid to our 
female employees is 8.81% lower than the 
average of all earnings paid to our male 
employees.

Our Median pay gap is 12.58% - this means 
the median hourly rate paid to our female 
employees is 12.58% lower than the median 
hourly rate paid to our male employees.

2

Bonus pay
In 2017, approximately 25% of all employees received a 
‘bonus’ as defined by the gender pay bonus guidelines. 
Bonuses are paid based on individual performance, as 
commission for sales and as an incentive for 
recommending new employees to the business.

23.2% 

24.9% 

Women 

23.2% were paid a bonus

Men 

24.9% were paid a bonus

 

 

Only marginally more males than females received a 
bonus in 2017.  This demonstrates our consistency in 
awarding bonuses fairly with no gender bias.  

The mean bonus pay gap is -5.37.  This shows the 
average of all bonuses paid to female employees is 
5.37% higher than the average of all the bonuses paid 
to male employees. 

The median bonus pay gap is -100%.  The shows the 
difference between the midpoint bonus amounts paid 
to males and females.

The variances in bonus pay are driven by a smaller 
number of females in the business – female 
employees receiving a bonus are generally in more 
senior positions within the company - and also by the 
different types of bonuses payable.  The bonus figure 
for female employees is distorted by a higher 
proportion of women receiving bonuses for 
recommending new employees to the business.

3

Explaining our gender pay gap
Whilst our pay gap is lower than the UK average, we would still 
like it to be better and at PCMS we are serious about addressing 
our gender pay gap.

The main reasons for our gender pay gap are as follows:

We have more men in senior positions 
with the highest salaries.  This is a legacy 
issue as the company was founded 35 
years ago when there were significantly 
more men than women in technology 
companies and we continue to have more 
men than women in the managerial, 
technical and specialist roles which 
attract a higher rate of pay.  We have 
made progress and whilst the Board is 
still 100% male, 38% of the Executive 
team is now made up of females (3 
females and 5 males) and there are a 
number of females in the Operational 
Management team which is encouraging 
for future succession.

As with many other technology 
companies, we have a larger proportion of 
males than females in the business as a 
whole and particularly in our technical 
roles.  In the UK there are fewer females 
than males graduating in core STEM 
subjects (science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics) with only 24% of 
graduates being women.  In computer 
science this figure is just 15% and 14% in 
engineering1.  This means there are fewer 
females available for these roles.  Whilst 
we advertise in and recruit from 
universities across the UK, we currently 
work more closely with two universities 
whose course syllabuses are closely 
aligned with the technology we use.  
Statistics from these two universities show 
that 75% of students enrolled in the 
courses which are relevant to PCMS are 
male.    These statistics are reflected in the 
numbers of undergraduates/graduates 
applying to PCMS: 75% male and 25% are 
female and also reflects the ratio of male 
to female employees working in the 
company as whole.

1 Wise Resources 2017

4

How we plan to address our pay gap

Recruitment
Recognising the need to attract more 
young people into technology careers, a 
number of years ago we began working 
with schools, colleges, training providers 
and universities to develop apprenticeships 
and undergraduate and graduate schemes.   
Our aim is to encourage more young 
people, and particularly females, into 
technology related careers by identifying 
and building closer working relationships 
with a wider pool of universities to ensure 
we are recruiting from as wide a talent 
pool as possible.  We have already 
achieved some success in this area with 
our management graduate scheme, which 
although small in terms of numbers, has 
gone from 100% male in the first year to 
67% female for the combined intake in 
2016 and 2017.

We plan to work more closely with 
educational establishments to promote 
STEM subjects and encourage girls and 
women to apply to these subjects.  This will 
be done through offering work experience 
opportunities, volunteer speakers, blogs 
and asking our successful female 
employees to act as role models in our 
local community.

When recruiting experienced candidates, 
we work with a number of different 
organisations to ensure we achieve 
diversity in our talent pool. 

We plan to review our recruitment 
processes and materials to ensure they 
appeal to women as well as men.

Retention and Development 
All of our apprentices and graduate 
recruits are allocated a mentor when 
joining the company.  The mentors provide 
feedback, support and encouragement 
which help individuals with their personal 
and career development.  We plan to 
extend the mentoring programme to other 
employees to support their career 
development and to create positive role 
models for all employees.

We have a number of positive female role 
models within the business and we are 
actively looking at how they can work 
within the company and our local 
community to act as advocates for 
encouraging more young people into 
technological careers and also to help 
develop our existing employees.

We offer career development and 
progression based on abilities and will 
continue to focus on both professional and 
personal development. Our opportunities 
are offered internally as well as externally 
and we are committed to developing our 
existing employees to ensure they are 
equipped to progress within the 
organisation as opportunities arise.  

PCMS Group Limited  
PCMS House, Torwood Close 
Westwood Business Park 
Coventry CV4 8HX
+44 (0)24 7669 4455
mail@pcmsgroup.com

Copyright © 2018 PCMS Group Ltd. All rights reserved.

5

