UNITEMPS WARWICK BRANCH
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Our gender pay gap report 2017

At Unitemps our activities have been developed for the education sector.  
We are driven by a core belief that success comes from those that 
harness the benefits of a truly diverse and inclusive culture. We are 
committed to providing equality of opportunity for all throughout our 
activities.

What is the gender pay gap?

The gender pay gap displays the difference in average pay between male 
and female employees. This is different to equal pay which ensures male 
and female employees receive the same pay for the same role.

As a recruitment business this report takes into account the placement of 
candidates into temporary positions at all levels across our clients 
organisations. 

A more detailed breakdown of the proportion of male and female employees 
at each pay quartile is shown below. These figures demonstrate that Unitemps 
Warwick has a slightly higher proportion of female to male temporary staff but 
the ratio of the split remains similar across pay grades.

Upper Quartile
Female  Male
61.7%  38.3%

Upper Middle

Quartile

Female    Male
57.5%  42.5%

Lower Middle

Quartile

Female  Male
52.3%  47.7%

Lower Quartile
Female  Male
53.6%  46.4%

We confirm that the figures in our disclosure are accurate and have been 
calculated in accordance with gender pay gap reporting requirements as 
outlined in the legislation and accompanying guidance.

Paul Brewster
Director, Unitemps 

 

Rosie Drinkwater
Group Finance Director, 
University of Warwick 

 

Understanding our
gender pay gap

This information illustrates the mean 
and median gender pay gap across the 
candidates placed at our clients 
organisations. The data establishes that 
there is very little difference between 
male and female employees pay. 

The mean average
gender pay gap

= -1.2%

The median average
gender pay gap 

= 0.0%

Our bonus pay gap

In 2017, our gender bonus gap 
identified 15 males, 4.44% and 19 
females, 4.37% were allocated bonuses 
from their employers, demonstrating 
that there are a very small number of 
our clients that operate a bonus scheme 
within their organisations. Where our 
clients do offer a reward, the structure 
of these schemes varies significantly 
which impacts our gender bonus gap.

The mean average gender bonus gap is 
21.7% and the median average gender 
bonus gap is 54.3%.

