1

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017INTRODUCTION

As a global business, we believe our 
diversity helps us support travellers, 
partners and employees. We are 
dedicated to creating an environment 
in which, regardless of identity,  
employees and their work 
are championed.
As you’ll see in this report, one of the 
primary drivers for our pay gap is the 
breakdown of genders in engineering 
roles. This is a case for action rather 
than hyperbole. At Skyscanner we’ve 
been working to enhance equality 
and inclusiveness, both inside our 
company and within the wider tech 
landscape. I’m especially enthused 
to be able to share some of the 
work we’ve done already, which you 
can see in the ‘Actions’ section of 
this report. Some of these actions 
include experimenting with different 

recruitment methods and supporting 
programmes that seek to increase 
participation in STEM in local 
communities and minority groups.
As a first-time CEO, I’ve learned over 
the past decade that a shared vision 
is vital. And as an entrepreneur I know 
that tenacity and orchestration make 
up 99% of success. At Skyscanner, 
equality and diversity make up 
our shared vision and we have 
determination in spades. Much like 
making travel search simple, 
equality and diversity is a problem 
yet unsolved. Yet, thanks to the 
enthusiasm and commitment of our 
teams, change is happening, and I’m 
very proud to be part of this journey.
Gareth Williams 
CEO and Co-founder

As Chief People Officer, a keen focus of 
my role is ensuring we’re an inclusive 
workplace where everyone can thrive. 
With just under 1,000 employees in 
a business that is recruiting at speed, 
that includes everyone from those at 
interview stage all the way through to 
employees who have been here over 
ten years. In doing so, we constantly 
review recruitment methods and 
even job advert wording to ensure 
inclusivity, as well as making our 
diverse pool of interviewers keenly 
aware of unconscious bias. For existing 
employees, this commitment includes 
providing staff with the tools and 
training to progress, creating diversity 
and inclusion working groups so that 
all voices are heard, and, ultimately, 
ensuring employees achieve work-life 
fulfilment. At the end of the day, 
our success is underpinned by our 
teams across the world being able to 
prosper and flourish.
Much of the action highlighted above 
is in response to a challenge many 
technology companies like us are also 

looking to address: we have more 
men working in our organization than 
women, especially in engineering. 
In turn, our leadership demographics 
reflect this split too. It would be easy 
to say that’s the nature of a business 
that has a large engineering workforce; 
software engineering being a sector 
where women (amongst other groups) 
are underrepresented. Yet while the 
tech world is not alone in facing this 
challenge, a sector that is renowned 
for innovation should lead the way in 
addressing this imbalance. 
 We’ve worked hard, but we’re not 
there yet. Continuing to drive change 
is essential for progress – that goes for 
us as an organisation, as part of the 
technology sector and as part of the 
wider business community. 
We’ll endeavour to work harder 
than ever to achieve inclusivity and 
diversity and look forward to reporting 
on our progress. 
 
Ruth Chandler 
Chief Talent Officer

2

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017SKYSCANNER PAY
BY GENDER

The gender pay gap measures the 
difference in pay between men and 
women, irrespective of the type of 
work they do or their location. To work 
out the gender pay gap at Skyscanner, 
we analysed the pay of UK based 
employees across all types of roles 
and rates of pay to calculate our mean 
and median gender pay gaps. We did 
this using the Government’s Gender 
Pay Gap Reporting Regulations.
Of the 530 employees in the U.K. 
included in this analysis, 153 (30%) 
were women and 377 (70%) were 
men. The majority, 87%, were based at 
our offices in Scotland (Glasgow and 
Edinburgh) and the remaining 13% 
were located in London.
Whilst the gender pay gap reporting 
regulations require us to categorise 
employees as male or female, at 
Skyscanner we recognise that gender 
is not binary, and that some of our 
employees may not identify as either 
category. We are working to do more to 
support all employees through 
our diversity and inclusion efforts, 
more of which later.

Gender Pay Gap

Bonus Gender Pay Gap

Proportion of Women and Men Receiving a Bonus Payment

Proportion of Employees in each Quartile

3

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017UNDERSTANDING 
OUR STATISTICS

The mean pay gap of 18.7% within 
Skyscanner is close to the national 
average of 17.4%. Like many tech 
sector companies, Skyscanner 
currently employs fewer females 
than males. Our analysis tells us that 
the primary driver of our gender pay 
gap is not pay in itself, rather that we 
currently have a higher proportion of 
men in certain roles. We know that 

we have some work to do to both 
promote and attract more women 
into the business. We are confident 
that men and women performing 
similar roles are paid consistently. 
A high (66%) proportion of 
Skyscanner’s employees are 
in product / engineering roles. 
Such roles traditionally attract 
higher salaries. 

The overall gender proportion is also 
reflected at our leadership levels; 
of the six members of our Senior 
Leadership Team, two are women: 
our Chief  Legal Officer and our 
Chief  People Officer.
All employees are eligible 
for bonuses. This is reflected in 
an equal proportion of men and 
women being paid bonuses.

The bonus pay data reflects the 
same demographic split; the median 
and mean bonus pay is higher for 
males because they hold a higher 
proportion of more senior roles. 

4

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017ACTIONS

At Skyscanner we recognise that a diverse workplace in which all of our team can excel and progress is essential. 
Our biggest opportunity to reduce the gender pay gap is through attracting, supporting and promoting female talent. 
We have been working towards a more diverse and inclusive workplace and will continue to do so.

Review of recruitment methods to 
attract a diverse workforce

Dedicated diversity and inclusion 
cross-working group initiative

Ensuring every employee is 
supported in an open and 
inclusive environment

We’ve started experimenting with various recruitment 
methods to attract diverse candidates. Some initiatives 
we’re exploring include advertising for part-time engineering 
positions and reviewing the wording in our role profiles to 
ensure inclusivity. We’ve also been refining our interview 
process to incorporate greater awareness around unconscious 
bias and continually assessing the interviewer pool to drive 
greater diversity. We also promote our vacancies internally to 
support employees wishing to progress.

We know that creating and maintaining an ethos of inclusion 
requires dedication. That’s why we introduced diversity 
and inclusion cross-functional working groups to make 
recommendations on the subject with team members 
spanning different functional areas of the business and 
across our global office locations.

Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees can thrive, 
and we believe part of this comes from having a voice. 
Two recent initiatives include internal discussion channels with 
a diversity and inclusion focus and, in a number of our offices, 
women-only Lean-In circles. We are looking to expand the 
Lean-In groups in 2018 to more of our offices.

5

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017ACTIONS (CONTINUED)

We understand the need for 
flexibility in work and in life

Support for all to thrive at work

Advocating for wider participation

At Skyscanner we understand that every member of the team 
has commitments outside of work. One of our core values 
is ‘daytime is precious’ – we try to create an environment 
where our team can do both what they need to and want to 
do, inside and outside of work. 7% of our UK population work 
part time hours; 10% of women and 6% of men. We also allow 
employees to purchase additional days of holiday each year, 
which we have found is taken up in greater proportion 
by women.

Skyscanner University is a way to develop and grow within 
Skyscanner. In 2017, we launched Skyscanner University 
Personal Effectiveness Training  (including influencing, 
emotional intelligence, unconscious bias awareness) 
as phase one of a program which will be known as ‘Count Me 
In’, developed in conjunction with our Lean In groups. 
More phases are coming in 2018, focussing on confidence, 
imposter syndrome and other topics. The intention is that all 
of our employees, can benefit from this support and continue 
to grow and progress at Skyscanner.

Our support for diversity and inclusion isn’t just limited to 
our business. As part of our commitment to a wide range of 
social projects, we are supporting programmes that seek to 
increase participation in technology for people from diverse 
backgrounds, including STEM programmes for girls in schools 
and those from disadvantaged communities and minorities. 
In 2017 our support included sponsoring the AccelerateHER 
awards, designed to inspire and support more women-led 
companies, delivering careers talks at schools, skills-sharing 
with charities and hosting a Django Girls programming 
workshop in our London office. This year projects include 
support of a national science centre exhibition, funding for 
coding classes and more.

6

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017www.skyscanner.com  |  © Skyscanner 2018

7

SKYSCANNER   |  GENDER PAY REPORT 2017