Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

As the country’s leading payment specialists, we are committed to attracting and investing in the finest people whether that is from 
within the county, nationally or internationally. Aligned to this, we have processes in place to ensure inclusion and objectivity are at 
the heart of everything we do.

At allpay we are committed to equality, diversity and fairness throughout our pay structures. As a FinTech company committed to 
equal opportunities, we encourage individuals of all backgrounds to apply for existing vacancies, new opportunities or promotions.

2010 saw the introduction of a formalised job evaluation process at allpay, which enables an objective and scientific approach 
to pay. This is focused on the value of the role rather than on the value of the person, making no distinction between male and 
female, which means we have never had any equal pay issues.

We recognise that many of our specialist roles are from generally male dominated industries, for example production, print, IT and 
manufacturing. This is reflected in the applications we receive and the candidates we are able to source. Historically, the majority 
of senior candidates in Prepaid, Card Services and Bill Payments have been male. As such, we were aware of our slight gender pay 
gap, but continue to be proud of the activity we have undertaken in this area over the years.

At allpay, developing our people is incredibly important to us. Each year we run a Team Leader Programme, which prepares 
employees for management and more senior positions. The 2017/18 class that recently qualified was female dominated. This 
was a brilliant outcome for the company, and going forward our aim is to continue to encourage more female participation and 
try to achieve a better gender balance at all levels, which as a result will close the current gender pay gap.  Our overall philosophy 
remains to be objective and promote and appoint the best people for the job.

We currently have a number of initiatives in place, to ensure that we deliver against our objectives, such as our award-winning 
apprentice schemes, our leadership programme, our accredited living wage model and our continually evolving benefits and 
reward system.

