>  BRITISH AIRWAYS 

Holidays 

 

G E N D E R   PAY  

REPORT 2017 

British Airways Holidays Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of British Airways Plc and employs 251* 
people. The company is a tour operator selling hotel accommodation, car hire and other travel related 
products to support the sale of flight seats for British Airways worldwide, plus package holidays. 

 
“It is important to British Airways Holidays 
 
that our employees are able to fulfil 
 
their potential and we’re delighted that 
 
these figures show that women are well 
 
represented right up to senior management 
 
level. This includes my leadership team, which 
 
comprises of more women than men. All our 
 
recruitment, progression, and pay decisions 
 
are based on merit and are unaffected by 
 
gender.  We will continue to encourage a 
positive work-life balance, and accommodate 
 
flexible working where we can.” 
  

Claire Bentley – Managing Director 

CAUSES OF THE GENDER PAY GAP 

 
At British Airways Holidays, 70 per cent of our workforce 
 
are women, and women are represented at all levels of the 
 
business. We have a median gender pay gap of 27% and a 
  
mean gender pay gap of 18%. 

PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCES 

Hourly pay difference 
Bonus pay difference 

Mean 
18% 
35% 

Median 

27% 
-354% 

A negative number means the gap favours women 

 
We have been working hard to understand our pay gap. We are pleased that women progress through the 
 
organisation and that we have a significant number of female employees in senior roles. We are confident 
 
that men and women doing comparable work are paid fairly and equally. 
 
A large proportion of our pay gap relates to the fact that we have a high proportion of female employees 
 
in less senior roles, many of which are carried out on a part-time or job share basis. This means the 
 
number of employees in these roles is higher. 

under the relevant regulations. These payments 
 
were smaller than the bonuses awarded to employees 

CAUSES OF THE BONUS GAP 
British Airways Holidays operates a bonus scheme,  who met individual targets, and this is a key 
with different targets depending on role. In the 
 
period between 6 April 2016 and 5 April 2017, 
a small number of employees met their targets 
and received a bonus.   
The bonus figures above are affected by commission  bonuses received rather than pro-rated amounts, 
payments that meet the definition of bonus pay 

contributor to our bonus gaps. 
The bonus calculation does not take into account 
the number of part-time employees (who are 
predominantly female) and is based on actual 

 

 

which affects our bonus gap.  

 
Only 11 per cent of women and 20 per cent of men received any bonus payments (as defined by the 
 
regulations). As above, due to the limited number of people receiving a bonus, and the combination 
 
of different types of payments falling into this calculation, it is difficult to draw useful conclusions from 
 
this result. We are comfortable that our bonus eligibility criteria are fair and that men and women have 
 
equal opportunity to earn bonuses and commission. 

* as reported on 5 April 2017 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 1 

>  BRITISH AIRWAYS 

Holidays 

 

PAY QUARTILES 
 
Given that 70 per cent of British Airways Holidays’ workforce is female, the gender distribution across 
 
the four equal pay quartiles shows that women are well represented at every level of our business, but 
 
the figures suggest that there is an over-representation of women in the lower pay quartiles. 
 

PROPORTION OF WOMEN AND MEN IN EACH PAY QUARTILE 

15% 
M 

85% 

F 

25% 
M 

75% 

F 

37% 
M

63% 

F 

43% 
M

57% 

F 

Lowest quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Highest quartile 

HOW WE ARE ADDRESSING THESE DIFFERENCES 
We are committed to tackling gender imbalance and to building a diverse and inclusive workforce. 
We have family-friendly workplace policies in place and we continue to support flexible working 
throughout the business. We encourage a healthy work life balance, and around a quarter of our 
employees have had requests to work flexibly or work reduced hours approved, and this flexibility 
exists right up to our leadership team.  This helps us attract and retain both male and female 
employees at all levels of the organisation. 
British Airways Holidays welcomes the gender pay reporting obligations as an opportunity to analyse 
the make-up of our workforce and to ensure that we continue to reward men and women fairly for 
the contribution they make. We are committed to working to attract employees of all backgrounds to 
our organisation and to support them in developing and progressing through the business. 

USEFUL TERMS: 
Equal pay is when men and women performing equal work receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010. 
Gender pay gap refers to the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings across the 
organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. 

,) 

We confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with mandatory requirements. 

Signed 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 2 

