 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2018 Gender Pay Gap Report for Lumen Christi Multi Academy 
Trust 
 
 
 
We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Gap Reporting under the 
Equalities Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
The data is based on all relevant full-pay employees as on 31st March 2017. 
 
There are six key metrics that are required of us to publish under the Act: 
 
1.  The difference in the mean pay of full-pay men and women, expressed as a percentage 
 
2.  The difference in the median pay of full-pay men and women, expressed as a percentage 
 
3.  The difference in mean bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage 
 
4.   The difference in median bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a percentage 
 
5.  The proportion of men and women who received bonus pay 
 
6.  The proportion of full-pay men and women in each of the four quartile pay bands 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender Make Up  
 
In Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust, the gender make up of our staff is: 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

78.8% of Women 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   21.2% of Men 

1 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
In Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust, the gender pay gap is: 
 

Mean Pay Gap                                       Median Pay Gap 

 

 
          12%  

 

 

 

 

 

                 

 

 

 

 

11%   

 
 
 
Bonus Pay 
 
Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust does not pay bonuses to its staff. 
 
 
Pay by Quartiles 
 
In Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust the proportion of full-pay men and women in each of the 
four quartile pay bands is:  
 

Lower Quartile    

 

Lower Middle Quartile Upper  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.2% male 82.8% female 

13.1% male 86.9% female 

 

 
 
 
 
            
 
 
 

 

2 

 

 

   Upper Middle Quartile  

                   Upper Quartile   

   27.3% male 72.7% female           27.3% male 72.7% female   

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Understanding our pay structure 
 

•  Our terms and conditions of employment, including pay, are determined by national 

negotiating bodies for teachers and local government employees (support staff) and by 
local consultation.  We do not pay our employee’s outside of these terms and conditions.   

•  As an employer we are committed to the principals of paying men and women equally 

for undertaking the same work.  

•  We follow the principals of Single Status as set by Birmingham City Council and our non-

teaching roles have a salary grade determined following a job evaluation.    
 

•  Owing to the nature of the roles required within a school, we have an unavoidable large 

number of part time, female employees, who occupy very important roles, which have 
been evaluated to the lower end of the salary structure for support staff and this is 
reflected in our Gender Pay Gap. 
 

•  Pay progression for both teaching and support staff is performance related and subject 

to scrutiny of our Multi Academy Company for equality purposes. 

•  We are a Living Wage Employer, paying an hourly rate set by the Living Wage 
Foundation, which is a higher hourly rate than that of the National Living wage. 
 

•  Our gender pay gap is below the national average. 

 

 
 
 

3 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

How Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust are looking to tackle the Gender 
Pay Gap 
 
In an attempt to decrease the pay gap between our male and female employees over the next 
12 months, Lumen Christi Multi Academy Trust commits to:  
 
 

•  Monitoring the effectiveness of our recruitment process to improve diversity.   

 

•  Ensuring that all our vacancies are advertised in a way that will return a diverse pool of 
applicants to choose from, particularly at leadership levels, with the aim of appointing or 
promoting more women in to leadership roles. 
 

•  Encouraging flexible working to support both our male and female employees’ balance 

their careers with their commitments outside of work. 
 

•  Promote the benefits of paternity leave, parental leave and shared parental leave. 

 

•  Growing our own talent by encouraging staff to fulfil their potential with us, rather than 

leaving to achieve this.   
 

•  Pro-actively supporting women on returning to employment following leave for maternity 
or caring reasons.  Maximising the contribution that their experience and skills can bring 
to the organisation. 
 

•  Annually scrutinising pay and reward to ensure that pay differences in grades are 

reduced, where possible. 

 

•  Working towards becoming an “Employer of Choice”.   

 

Lumen Christi Catholic Multi Academy Company is committed to equality of opportunity in 
employment and has adopted the model policy produced by Birmingham City Council in 
support of this which can be viewed by all employees.  In-line with this policy our aims are to 
recruit, retain and develop employees based on merit, competence and potential. We are 
committed to promoting a positive work environment for our employees and ensuring 
employees are given every opportunity to fulfil their potential. 

On behalf of Lumen Christi Catholic Multi Academy, I can confirm that the above figures are 
accurate and that the Trust is committed to the on-going reduction of our gender pay gap. 
 
 
 
Clare Madden 
Accounting officer 
 
 

 

4 

