1 | YBS Gender Pay Report 2017

YBS Gender PAY Report 2017 
For the first time, companies with over 250 employees 
have been asked to report on their gender pay gap. 

What could cause 
a gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap is based on average pay 
of females and males, so one of the biggest 
causes of it can be the numbers of women 
and men in different roles and at different 
levels in an organisation.

For example: if the majority of employees 
in the upper pay levels are male, and the 
majority of employees in the lower pay 
levels are female, there is likely to be a 
gender pay gap, even though everyone is 
being paid the correct and fair pay for the job 
that they are doing. Other reasons which may 
contribute to a gap include:

  Different industry sectors and different 
jobs – with different rates of pay – that 
people work in.

  Contracted hours – the high proportion of 
women in often lower-paid part-time work.

  Pay progression – across the UK generally, 
a widening of the gender pay gap typically 
happens when women take time away from 
work to raise families, with pay progression 
for women returners on average being 
slower than for men. 

  Pay choices – that are made at various 
points of an individual’s working life.

There are many possible root causes to 
these reasons. Some may be personal, such 
as choices people make because of their 
own circumstances, their work preferences, 
and their aspirations. Other causes are part 
of society generally, such as the roles that 
people have historically been attracted to 
or feel comfortable working in. The culture 
in an organisation can have an impact too, 
affecting how well supported all colleagues 
feel to progress as far as they would like.  

Because there are many contributing factors 
to a gender pay gap, there isn’t one simple 
solution that ‘fixes’ it.

Our priorities  
for 2017 to 2018
We’re on a journey to understand more 
about gender pay at YBSG today. We want to 
ensure that we create an environment for all 
of our colleagues to thrive, and that there is 
nothing in the way of any colleague fulfilling 
their potential and aspirations. For example, 
we want to make sure that both women and 
men feel confident to apply for our most 
senior roles, and men as well as women feel 
equally comfortable applying for part time 
working, if they’d like to do so. 

Our diversity and inclusion strategy is key to 
help us achieve this aim. We’ve appointed a 
dedicated Diversity and Inclusion Manager 
and made a commitment to fostering an 
inclusive workplace. 

In the meantime we’re implementing a 
number of actions to ensure that we have 
strong foundations to move forward:

  Educating managers to enable them to 
make the most effective pay decisions for 
their people regardless of gender. In 2017 
over 400 line managers attended pay 
education training. 

  Supporting working parents through our  
‘Finding the Balance’ initiative so they 
don’t have to choose between their career 
and bringing up their children. In 2017 we 
increased our maternity pay, paternity pay, 
adoption pay and shared parental pay.  
YBS featured in the top 30 Britain’s most 
family friendly workplaces for the first time 
in 2017 following the enhancements to  
our policies. 

  Developing a more diverse and inclusive 
workforce through our inclusion 
commitments. Over 4000 colleagues have 
undertaken equality and diversity training 
so far this year. For more information on 
this please follow the link below.

The gender pay gap is most simply described 
as the difference between the average wages 
of men and women regardless of seniority.  
This is different to equal pay which addresses 
the difference in pay for men and women in 
the same job. We regularly review our pay 
by grade to ensure that men and women are 
treated equally, and we are comfortable  
with our position in that respect. 

Our mean gender pay gap at April 2017 
is 31.0%. Another way of looking at our 
gender pay gap is the median average;  
this is 28.6% for the same period. 

Trust, transparency and fairness is very 
important to us, and we’ve taken real care 
to understand what’s behind our pay gap. 
We’ve worked with our line managers to 
review our pay policies and procedures 
and are confident that these do not favour 
one group over another. Diversity and 
inclusion is important to YBS Group. So is 
gender balance. This is not about positive 
discrimination – we want everyone to 
have access to opportunities. Our analysis 
shows that the key driver for our gap is the 
imbalance in the numbers of women and 
men at different levels in the organisation. 
In simple terms we have more females 
occupying the less senior roles in the 
organisation, with fewer in the most senior 
roles. It is this imbalance that results in the 
gender pay gap. 

If YBS Group were to have a 50:50 split of 
males and females at each level, our gap 
would be much lower at 3.5%. 

Our colleagues are also rewarded and 
recognised through our annual bonus 
scheme in 2017. Nearly equal proportions 
of women and men receive a bonus award. 
When compared to the maximum bonus 
opportunity available, both men and women 
achieved virtually the same amount.

For comparison purposes we’ve also 
calculated the gap in the actual bonus 
pay received by both groups (the gender 
bonus gap). In 2017 this stands at 39.7% 
(mean) and 32.1%% (median). Again, this is 
largely due to the imbalance of women and 
men across organisation levels. Unlike the 
gender pay gap, the bonus gap is calculated 
purely on the number of colleagues in the 
organisation. This means that it doesn’t take 
account of part-time working, and the result 
is potentially higher due to the majority of 
our part-time colleagues being female.

2 | YBS Gender Pay Report 2017

GENDER PAY AND GENDER  
BONUS GAPS EXPLAINED.

Statutory Metrics  
2017

The gender bonus  
gap and numbers  
of colleagues  
receiving bonus 
The gender bonus gap shows the average 
difference in all bonuses received in the  
12 months prior to the 5 April, by women 
and men employed at 5 April. Unlike the 
gender pay gap, there is no pro-rating for 
hours worked, or length of service in year. 
So the gap can be particularly high if, for 
example, there are more women than men 
carrying out part-time work.

As with pay, both the mean and the median 
bonus gaps are calculated. And we also 
show the proportions of male and female 
colleagues, employed at 5 April, who were 
paid bonus during the previous 12 months. 

The proportions  
of colleagues in  
pay quartiles 
The final metric produced for gender pay 
gap reporting is the proportion of male 
and female colleagues, in receipt of full 
pay in April, in each of four pay quartiles. 
This demonstrates how many women and 
men there are at different pay levels in the 
organisation. Quartiles are found by listing 
everyone’s hourly rate pay, from the lowest 
to the highest, in four equal quartiles.

The descriptions below give an overview  
of the gender pay gap measures and  
how they are calculated. For precise 
definitions, the relevant regulations  
should be referred to.  

The gender pay gap –  
What it is
The gender pay gap is the average difference 
in pay between all men and all women – at 
an organisation, industry, or country level. 
It uses average hourly rates of pay, so puts 
everyone on a level footing by adjusting for 
the number of contracted hours. 

The gender pay gap – 
What it isn’t 
Because it’s based on average rates of pay, 
the existence of a gender pay gap does not 
mean that individuals are being paid unfairly 
for the specific role that they do. Gender pay 
is completely different from equal pay, which 
considers pay differences for individuals at a 
role level e.g. jobs of the same value.  

Calculating the  
gender pay gap 
‘Pay’ is calculated for the pay period  
including 5 April, according to strict 
definitions. It includes basic salary and 
a number of other elements paid in that 
month, including shift premia, bonus 
payments and certain allowances. It doesn’t 
include overtime, or deductions. Where pay 
is less than usual in April due to particular 
reasons, such as maternity, paternity or sick 
leave, the individual is not included in the 
pay gap calculation. In the regulatory  
data two ways of calculating the average  
are shown:

  The mean averages all of the pay rates  
for all men (included in the calculation),  
and all of the pay rates for all women 
(included in the calculation). 

  The median takes the middle  
value in a range of pay rates.

Gender pay gap  
Mean1

31.0%
28.6%

Median2

Gender bonus gap  
Mean3

39.7%
32.1%

Median4 

Bonus pay 
The proportion of male and female 
relevant employees  who were paid 
bonus pay.

MALE: 95.0%

FEMALE: 96.3%

Pay quartiles 
The proportions of male and female 
full-pay relevant employees in 
specific pay quartiles.

Lower

Lower 
middle

MALE: 20.1%  
FEMALE: 79.9%

MALE: 26.7%  
FEMALE: 73.3%

Upper 
middle

upper

MALE: 40.0%  
FEMALE: 60.0%

MALE: 57.6%  
FEMALE: 42.4%

Statement of accuracy  
The information presented in this statement 
in relation to the Yorkshire Building Society 
Group has been created in line with and to 
comply with The Equality Act 2010  
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017, in relation to the pay period  
including 5 April 2017. 

 
Stephen White, Chief Operating Officer 
Date: 16th November 2017

1 The difference between the mean hourly rate of 
pay of male full-pay relevant employees and that of 
female full-pay relevant employees. 2 The difference 
between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay 
relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant 
employees. 3The difference between the mean bonus pay 
paid to male relevant employees and that paid to female 
relevant employees. 4 The difference between the median 
bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and that paid 
to female relevant employees.

