William Hill 
Gender Pay Report. 

At William Hill, we are committed to creating a diverse and 
inclusive workplace for everyone. Not only is this the right 
thing to do, but we believe that a diverse team means a 
stronger business, which benefits our customers and makes 
us a more attractive employer. 

Pay quartiles.

The pay quartiles reflect the gender imbalance at 
senior levels within the business. Quartiles 1, 2 and 3 
all have a higher proportion of women to men. 

We welcome the requirement for more transparency on 
pay and are committed to improving our gender pay gap 
as evidenced by our membership of the “30% Club”. We 
take our responsibility to our colleagues very seriously, 
and have a number of initiatives in place which we believe 
will increase the number of women in senior management 
positions and in other roles across the business. 

(Lowest)

(Highest)

Women

Men

Bonus receivers.  

The percentage of bonus receivers also reflects the 
fact that 54% of our retail colleagues are women. 
Retail staff are most likely to have received a form of 
bonus payment over the relevant period.

Our recent annual survey, which had an 89% response rate, 
showed that 72% of women strongly agree or agree that 
William Hill treats all employees fairly irrespective of gender, 
age, race, disability, religion or sexual orientation, with a 
further 13% neutral.

80%

84%

In-scope 
Receivers 

6,788
5,407

In-scope 
7,663
Receivers  6,413

The gender pay gap is not about equal pay. Equal pay is ensuring that men and women doing equivalent jobs are paid the same. 
We are confident that we have equal pay for equal work at William Hill and we regularly carry out detailed analyses of our pay 
and policies to ensure this is the case.

The figures below show our “gender pay gap”, which is the difference in the average pay and bonuses of all men and women 
across our business. The mean pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay for women compared to men and the median 
pay gap represents the difference in hourly pay between the middle point of the female population in our business and the 
middle point of the male population in our business. The hourly pay figure used to calculate the difference includes all items 
specified in the regulations, such as allowances and shift pay.

Our median pay gap is 5.71% and our mean pay gap is 17.19%. The reason behind this gap is a gender imbalance at senior levels 
within the business. Our figures compare to a national median average gap of 18.4% and mean average gap of 17.4%. ONS 
estimate the equivalent averages for “Gambling and Betting Activities” to be 9.2% and 21.1% respectively.

5.71%

‘Median’ pay gap

17.19%

‘Mean’ pay gap

17.68%

‘Median’ bonus gap

55.96%

‘Mean’ bonus gap

‘Median’ male hourly pay

‘Median’ female hourly pay

£8.66

£8.17

‘Mean’ male hourly pay

‘Mean’ female hourly pay

£10.88

£9.01

‘Median’ male bonus

‘Median’ female bonus

£202

£166

‘Mean’ male bonus

‘Mean’ female bonus

£827

£364

The mean and median bonus gaps are higher than the pay gaps due to the high number of men in senior management. 

What we are doing about it?

We are actively seeking to attract women in to senior positions within the Group, and 
have made several management-level female hires in the last 12 months and 27% of 
our Group Executive are now women. Further as the table below shows, the pay gap 
amongst our wider senior management is actually positive in favour of women.

Applying findings from research we have undertaken, our job adverts are now 
worded neutrally and do not use words or references that conjure masculine 
imagery. We are also commencing unconscious bias training to help interviewers 
identify unknown bias towards certain roles, and we regularly feature women in the 
“Behind The Bet” blog on our careers site. 

Elsewhere, we are taking action through several key initiatives. Along with our 
membership of the 30% club, we have established a global forum around culture, 
whose principal area of focus is diversity. It also looks at demographic trends, 
employment policies and practices across the group. 

We run a “Women of William Hill” networking group where women are encouraged 
to share experiences, external trends and best practice, are provided with access to 
external material and also kept informed on internal and external events.

In our Retail business, we have established a “Women in Leadership” forum for 2018 
to better support women in reaching middle management and senior leadership 
positions. 

In our Online business, we participate in the “Girls in Tech” Gibraltar forum. 
“Girls in Tech” is a global non-profit focused on the engagement, education and 
empowerment of girls and women who are passionate about technology. The 
Gibraltar forum is part of this and provides access to wide-ranging materials along 
with a number of programs such as access to mentorship and various development 
activities.

Last year we launched our Technology Graduate Programme and 18% of our intake 
were women. This is significantly higher than the 7% of students taking A-level 
computer science courses who are women, and the 8% of employees currently in 
Tech who are women.

Gender balance. 

The charts below show the breakdown of our 
employees across different parts of the Group.  
We are taking measures to increase the number of 
women in senior management and technical areas. 

All employees.

48%

48%

52%

Senior Management. 

Technical. 

Men 
85%
Women  15% 

Men 
88%
Women  12% 

Mean pay gap - by Grade.

453 employees

115 employees

Senior Management

Technical

Admin & Support

Retail & Shop

Men

385

101

365

5,324

Women

Mean gender pay gap

Admin & Support.

Retail & Shop. 

68

14

165

6,349

-10.25%

9.69%

7.82%

2.60%

Men 
69%
Women  31% 

Men 
46%
Women  54% 

530 employees

11,673 employees

Our pledges.

By 2020, we commit to: 
 
1.   Ensuring that women represent 30% of our senior 

management population 

2.   Ensuring that the number of colleagues who believe 

William Hill treats all employees fairly irrespective 
of gender, age, race, disability, religion or sexual 
orientation is at least 90%

3.  Reducing our mean gender pay gap to less than 10%

Roger Devlin
Chairman

Philip Bowcock 
CEO

Karen Myers
Group HR Director

Ruth Prior
Chief Financial Officer

