             Tel: 01908 443000 Email: sales@txmplant.co.uk  TXMPlant   Our Fleet Wheeled Tracked MEWPs Other Vehicles Monster Cranes Attachments Why Choose Us Journey to Zero Accreditation Meet the Team Community Track Record Policies Services Plant Hire P.O.S and Cranes Principal Contracting Recruitment Used Equipment TXM Rail Blog Contact Us   The largest supplier of Road / Rail vehicles in the UK. With over 300 road/rail vehicles and 1,000 complementary attachments, TXM Plant has the most extensive plant fleet in the market. Get in Touch   Wheeled Tracked MEWPs Other Vehicles Monster Cranes Attachments   Wheeled   Our Wheeled range of Road Rail Solutions includes RRV’s from Colmar, UNAC (CAT) and Liebherr.  More Info  Tracked   TXM Plant have a large fleet of tracked vehicles including the Kobelco SK200 Monster Bug and the Komatsu PC138.  More Info  MEWPs   TXM Plant have over 55 MEWPs available throughout the UK including, Neotec Skyrailer and Genie z60.  More Info  Other Vehicles   From Dumpers to Dozers and even Personnel Carriers, TXM Plant have a range of vehicles to suit your needs.  More Info  Monster Cranes   Based on the SK200 Monster Bug, our four Monster Cranes are fitted with a 100 tonne Palfinger Crane. The Monster Crane has Tandem Lift capabilities without the need for outriggers.  More Info  Attachments   To complement our extensive fleet of Tracked and Wheeled RRV’s we offer a wide range of attachments including Pilling & Foundation Equipment, OLE Equipment and vegetation handling equipment.  More Info  The most extensive plant fleet in the market TXM Plant is the largest supplier of Road Rail Vehicles in the UK.   With over 600 people involved in our business, TXM deliver RRV Hire, POS Services and Principal Contracting services across the Mainland UK. With over 25 years experience working in the rail sector, TXM Plant can offer a team of experienced, professional staff and a versatile fleet of RRV Machines and Attachments to support a variety of projects. We have 10 depots nationwide covering all routes, giving TXM the ability to deliver an exceptional local service, backed by a national fleet.  From RRV Hire to POS Services and Principal Contracting, we are ready to go The Xtra Mile. More Info     Case Study Bristol Patchway (TPOD)  TXM Plant in numbers  0 Over 300 road/rail vehicles  0 1,000 complementary attachments  0 Expert fully trained employees Our Locations With ten depots nationwide the team are able to deliver an exceptional, local service to all customers.  Select Avonmouth (Bristol) Beckingham Birmingham Cardiff East Anglia Glasgow (Scotland) Milton Keynes Newbury Sittingbourne Wigan     From the Blog   Job Vacancy Purchase Ledger Clerk Wigan   Job Vacancy Service Engineer Newbury   Job Vacancy Join Us UK Wide   Unimog TXM Plant now own a fleet of six Unimog’s, four of which have been procured from across Europe and so new additions to the UK market. One of these four is a U1650L Crew Cab, with an additional 3 seats behind the driver allowing a safe place to carry additional passengers on site.      2017/18 Desktop Rail Calendar We jumped at the opportunity to donate to the Severn Valley Railway.      Journey to Zero We believe that everybody has the right to attend a safe working environment as well as returning home safely each and every day. This is why, at TXM, our vision towards health and safety is based on striving towards our target of zero. We’ve called this our Journey to Zero.    Latest Jobs with TXM Plant   Purchase Ledger Clerk - We have two exciting new part-time vacancies for the r...       TXMPlant TXM Plant Ltd The Grange, Harnett Drive, Wolverton Mill Milton Keynes MK 12 5NE  TEL: 01908 443000 Copyright © 2018 TXM Plant Design by OWB By using this site, you agree to our simple Cookie Policy     