      Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.    Skip to content     Browser does not support script.     Accessibility help           Home  About us  Get involved  Our services  Contact us  Staff zone     Enter search criteria            Working for us    Our vision and strategy    Delivery Plan    Our organisational structure    Our developments    Our performance    Our successes    Our budget and how we spend it    Our Locations    Trust Board    Board meeting dates and papers    Committees of the Board    Council of Governors    Inclusion Equality & Diversity    Inclusion and Involvement    Equality Delivery System    Equality Analysis    Equality Info Monitoring    Inclusion Working Group    Equality Objectives 2012-16    WRES    Gender Pay Gap      News    Photo library    Document library    CQC Information    Our Values       You are here: Home >  About us >  Inclusion, Equality & Diversity >  Gender Pay Gap   Gender Pay Gap   As a public organisation, we are required by law to publish the
difference between the average (mean) and median earnings of our
male and female staff. It also looks at the distribution of men and
women across four equal quartiles within the organisation.  Detailed below is the difference in earnings
between our staff from data which was taken on 31 March 2017.  It is important to recognise and understand
that gender pay gap differs from equal pay.  Equal pay means that men and women in the same
employment performing equal work must receive equal pay, as set out
in the Equality Act 2010. It is unlawful to pay people unequally
because they are a man or a woman.  Gender pay gap is a measure of the difference
between men’s and women’s average earnings across
an organisation.  Action  As a result of these finding, the Trust Inclusion Working Group (IWG) is responsible for developing
action plans and reporting outcomes to the Board, who will monitor
and scrutinise progress against action plans.  South East Coast Ambulance Service NHS
Foundation Trust believes in fairness and equity, and values
diversity in its role as both a provider of services and as an
employer, creating an NHS where the talents of all staff are valued
and developed.  Our Gender Pay Gap Results for 2017 will be a
benchmark and will enable us to plan improvements and monitor
progress moving forward.  Trust data taken from 31 March 2017, when the
Trust workforce consisted of 1,598 females (46%) and 1,846 males
(54%).       Gender    Mean Hourly Rate    Median Hourly Rate      Male    £13.02    £11.76      Female    £11.98    £11.49      Difference    £1.04    £0.28      Pay Gap %    8.01%    2.38%        Browser does not support script.       Alternative language options  Sitemap  Terms & conditions  Privacy statement    Design and technology by Reading Room    اردو  Polski  普通话  नेपाली  العربية বাংলা Browser does not support script. Browser does not support script.