NFER Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

It is a legal requirement under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 for any employer with more than 250 staff to report on their Gender Pay 
Gap and to publish information every year showing how large the pay gap is between their 
male and female employees. 
In accordance with these requirements, eligible employers are reporting on:  

•  The mean gender pay gap – the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of 

male employees and that of female employees as a percentage 

•  The median gender pay gap - the difference between the median hourly rate of pay 

of male employees and that of female employees as a percentage 

•  The mean bonus gap – the difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male 

employees and that paid to female employees as a percentage 

•  The median bonus gap – the difference between the median bonus pay paid to 

male employees and that paid to female employees as a percentage 

•  Quartile pay bands – the proportions of male and female employees in the lower, 

lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands 

The National Picture 
The provisional mean gender pay gap for the whole economy was 17.4% in April 2017, 
according to Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 
(ASHE) figures.  The median gender pay gap for the whole economy was reported as 18.4% 
for 2017, a slight increase on the 2016 figure of 18.2%. 
NFER’s gender pay gap 
NFER had 248 full-pay relevant employees on 5 April 2017, fewer than the number required 
to oblige the company to report on its gender pay gap.  However, we are publishing this data 
in order to demonstrate our commitment to transparency. 
NFER is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all 
employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. All staff, whether 
part-time, full-time or temporary are treated fairly and with respect. 
NFER has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, 
regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above).  
Selection for employment, promotion, training or any other benefit is on the basis of aptitude 
and ability and all employees are encouraged to develop their potential so that their talents, 
skills and expertise are fully utilised.  
NFER’s Median and Mean Gender Pay Gaps: 
Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap 
Mean gender bonus gap 
Median gender bonus gap 

-3.98% 
+2.92% 
-23.8% 
0% 

 
NFER’s mean gender pay gap is -3.98% with women being paid more than men in terms of 
the mean average for both permanent and temporary payrolls. However, on the permanent 
payroll, this pay gap is very modest (-0.07%). 

Public 

1 

Proportion of 
males % 
3.8% 
 
 

29% 
23% 
31% 
26% 

71% 
77% 
69% 
74% 

Conversely the median pay gap is 2.92%; this figure is reasonably consistent across both 
permanent and temporary staff.  
NFER is confident that the gender pay gaps do not stem from paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather, it is the result of the roles in which men 
and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 
Proportion of 
 
females % 
2.9% 
 
 

Staff receiving bonuses* 
 
Proportion of males and females in each 
quartile pay band (workforce divided into 
four equal parts by salary): 
Lower quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Upper quartile 
*Staff receiving bonuses is calculated using the total number of ‘relevant full pay staff’ employed at 
any time during the bonus year. 
Our headcount on the “snapshot date” of 5 April 2017 included 181 women and 67 men 
working across a range of roles. On that date, females represented 73% of NFER’s staff and 
they accounted for between 2/3rds and 4/5ths of each quartile. There is a slightly higher 
weighting of males in the top half of distribution which helps to explain why the median pay 
gap slightly favours men over women.  
Median and Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gaps: 
The median bonus is 0% while the mean bonus is -23.8% (i.e. in favour of women), with 
3.8% of men and 2.9% of women receiving a bonus in the period. 
NFER’s current policy is to give modest bonuses for exceptional work and outstanding 
contribution to the work of the Foundation. The bonus scheme is open to all permanent staff 
and to staff on longer term fixed term contracts. 
Measures to monitor the gender pay gap 
We use our integrated HR and payroll system to report to our senior management team on 
equality and diversity across the Foundation; this enables potential gender imbalances to be 
identified and addressed as appropriate. In future, we will continue to review gender pay 
audit data as part of our regular monitoring of equality across the organisation. 
Pay scales are published to employees.  We will continue to ensure that all staff have clear 
channels to communicate any issues regarding pay and benefits including through our staff 
surveys and Staff Council. 
Declaration 
I, Carole Willis, Chief Executive, NFER, confirm that the information in this statement is 
accurate. 
Signed 

 

March 2018 

Public 

2 

