VCCP PARTNERSHIP

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT   

2017

VCCP prides itself on operating 
as a meritocracy, it is in our DNA.  
We believe in creating a diverse 
and gender balanced workforce 
which is representative of the 
society we live in.
 
In 2017 the government introduced 
new regulations for all businesses 
over 250 people to publish their 
gender pay gap.

Michael Sugden
CEO VCCP PARTNERSHIP

GENDER PAY GAP

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of 
all men and women across an entire organisation, by expressing 
women’s pay as a percentage of men’s.

This is a separate issue to equal pay, which is the legal requirement for 
people carrying out the same or similar work to be paid equally, 
regardless of gender. In simple terms men and women doing the same 
jobs, being paid the same salary.

We are required to express our gender pay gap in two ways.  
By calculating the ‘mean’ (average) and the ‘median’ (the difference 
between the midpoints in the ranges of men’s and women’s pay) value.

VCCP has an overall split of 50% female and 50% male  employees.

WOMEN 265

MEN 265

Total employees 570

However, VCCP’s mean gender pay gap of 22% is slightly higher than the 
UK mean gap of 18.1%. This is due to 34% of women v 66% of men 
occupying the top quartile.

VCCP MEAN GENDER PAY GAP 22%

VCCP MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP 20%

QUARTILE PAY GAP

The gender pay gap reporting also requires us to group our employees’ 
hourly pay into four equal groups, ordered lowest to highest.

51%

49%

65%

35%

51%

49%

34%

66%

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

UPPER MIDDLE

UPPER

Our data illustrates that our challenge, like most other companies in our 
industry lies in the upper quartile where we have fewer women than 
men at this level which is why we have a gender pay gap. 

Our gender pay report is influenced by the challenge that we all face in 
our industry of retaining women at the senior level. The IPA census found 
that women now hold 30.5% of executive management positions. As 
published in that report, we are exceeding the industry average as 34% 
of our top quartile roles are occupied by women. We are committed to 
increase this to at least 40% by 2020.

BONUS PAY GAP

The bonus pay gap is the difference between men’s and women’s mean 
(average) and median (the difference between the midpoints in the 
ranges of men’s and women’s pay ) bonus pay in the 12 months ending 
on 5 April each year.

WOMEN RECEIVING BONUS

MEN RECEIVING BONUS

9.6%

11%

MEAN BONUS GAP 36.7%

MEDIAN BONUS GAP 32.1%

Our bonus data is influenced again by the under representation of 
women at the senior level.

Therefore, the focus of our efforts is addressing the under-representation 
of women at this senior level.

OUR ACTIONS

SOME OF OUR INITATIVES IN PLACE

Mandate a gender balanced candidate shortlist when recruiting 
across the group

We are actively involved with the Advertising Diversity Task Force

Commitment to improve our policy on flexible working

Move from 66/34 men to women gender split in the upper quartile  
to 60/40 split by 2020 as recommended by the IPA

Unconscious bias training for all managers

Grapevine – female network to support women across the company

Ongoing commitment to our annual diversity audit by an industry 
recognised body

THE BELOW INITIATIVES ARE IN DEVELOPMENT

Introduce return to work coaching for women on maternity leave

Introduction of a leadership programme for women, to nuture and 
develop high performing women into senior leadership roles

A SELECTION OF OUR WOMEN WHO 
OCCUPY SENIOR LEADERSHIP POSITIONS

Catherine Becker
CEO VCCP Media

Stephanie Brimacombe
Group CMO

Hannah Fitzgerald
MD VCCP

I joined VCCP as Finance Director over 11 years ago when VCCP had 200 employees in 
London and one International office.  Prior to joining VCCP I had trained at KPMG and had 
worked in other agencies within the industry.
VCCP has been a very exciting time of my career as I have been able to help an 
entrepreneurial company grow to over 1000 employees internationally.  
For me VCCP is a fast paced and inspiring place to work as well as being very caring and 
considerate of people’s lives outside work which makes it very special and is I think a big 
contributor to its success and growth. 
We also have a high proportion of women in senior roles which provides a good balance to 
the management of the company as well as being a great inspiration for women who are 
in the process of building their careers.  
As the business continues to grow the challenge of maintaining the VCCP spirit gets ever 
harder but we are all committed to making sure VCCP continues to be the place it has 
always been in putting a high value on its people and their contribution as a major factor of 
its success.

Maggie Frost
Group COO

Melissa Jamieson
MD VCCP Retail

Tara Marus
COO VCCP Media

Sophie Maunder
CEO VCCPme

I have been working in the advertising industry for 20 years.  I joined the VCCP 
Partnership just over 3 years ago and can honestly say it’s the best Agency I have worked 
at.  Having worked and experienced networked and independent agencies the 
partnership is nirvana for me in terms of having the best of all worlds.
I’m the Managing Director of the customer engagement element of the partnership. 
I work in an environment that supports a healthy work life balance, supports flexibility in 
all guises and treats everyone as individuals not a HR process. 

I joined VCCP in 2012, attracted by the entrepreneurial spirit of the agency and the 
integration of the Health team within the wider VCCP Partnership. I already had three 
young children when I started at VCCP and have greatly appreciated the flexibility that 
the agency has given me over the years.  This wasn’t something I’d experienced in the 
past, and it’s very important to me that we continue to provide flexibility to champion and 
retain our female talent. 
This is also the first agency that I’ve worked at with a number of inspirational women in 
senior roles.  The support that I’ve received from these women has been incredible and 
has helped me to transition into my new MD role.   
I now feel that it’s my responsibility to encourage more women to strive for senior roles 
and to find the right mentors to help them get there. 

Louise Morgan
MD VCCPme

Beverely Newbury
MD VCCP Health

