 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 

 
I’m pleased to report our gender pay gap data for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. To calculate our gender pay gap, we have taken the pay 
data of 614 employees. 
 
What is the gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap measures the difference between men and women’s earnings across the business by expressing women’s hourly rate of 
pay as a percentage of men’s hourly rate of pay. This is different to equal pay; equal pay refers to men and women receiving equal pay for 
equal work. 
 
GENDER PAY GAP 
- 
- 

GENDER BONUS PAY GAP 
The mean gender bonus gap for Hawksmoor is 10.9% 
The median gender bonus gap for Hawksmoor is -12.5% 

 
-  
-  

 
 
 

 

 

 
The mean gender pay gap for Hawksmoor is -6.5%   
The median gender pay gap for Hawksmoor is -1.3% 

 

 

 

-  

The proportion of male employees in Hawksmoor receiving a bonus is 9.4% 
and  the proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 13.2% 

Overall pay distribution 
This shows the proportion of men and women in each quartile by pay band. To calculate it we ranked employees according to their hourly rate 
of pay, then divided them into four quartiles – with an equal number of people in each quartile. 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band  Males 

Females 

Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

71.4 

28.6 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or below the lower quartile 

64.3 

35.7 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the lower quartile but at or below the 
median 

74.5 

25.5 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the median but at or below the upper 
quartile 

60.1 

39.9 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the upper quartile 

 
Hawksmoor is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or 
belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. We have a clear policy of 
paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As such, we: 

•  Have clear pay bands for roles: equal pay for equal work  
•  Regularly review job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure; and  

•  Carry out pay and benefits audits at least once a year. 

We are therefore confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. 
Rather our gender pay gap is the result of company gender make up and the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and 
the salaries that these roles attract. The ratio of male to female employees at Hawksmoor is 68% to 32% with over half (66%) of the male 
population working in non-managerial kitchen and front of house roles that attract the lowest rate of pay. In comparison only 33% of the 
female population occupy these roles. This is illustrated in the table above.  
In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each band.  
  
How does Hawksmoor’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 
The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say that Hawksmoor gap compares favourably and 
uniquely with that of other organisations, including those within the hospitality industry. 
The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) is 17.4%, while in the 
food and beverage service activities it is 11.9%. At -6.5% Hawksmoor’s mean gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than both the 
economy as a whole and more significantly than that for our sector. 
The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (per the ONS) is 18.4%, while in the food and beverage service activities sector it is 5%. At -
1.3%, Hawksmoor’s median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower when compared to both measures. 

Comparison with other organisations 

  

Hawksmoor 

2017 ONS ASHE whole sector 

2017 ONS ASHE Food and beverage service activities 

Mean gender pay gap 

-6.5% 

17.4% 

11.9% 

Comparison with other organisations 

  

Hawksmoor 

2017 ONS ASHE whole sector 

2017 ONS ASHE Food and beverage service activities 

Median gender pay gap 

-1.3% 

18.4% 

5.0% 

 
What are we doing to address our gender pay gap? 
While Hawksmoor’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations both across the whole UK economy and within the food 
and beverage sector, this is not a subject about which Hawksmoor is complacent, and we are committed to continue doing all we can to ensure 
fair and equal pay. However, we also recognise that our scope to act is limited in some regards – we have, for example, no direct control over 
the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make. 
To date, the steps that Hawksmoor has taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce include the following: 

•  Clear pay bands – for each role  
•  Paid company maternity and paternity leave & support to return to work 
•  Support for flexible working, including for parents of both genders 
•  Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities for action, in 2016 Hawksmoor introduced 

gender monitoring to understand: 

o 
o 
o 
o 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited; 
the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions; 
the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for leaving; 
the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band; 

o 
o 

take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation; 
the proportion of men and women who return to their original job after a period of maternity or other parental leave. 

 
I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017. 
Signed 
 
 
Alex McLauchlan  
Chief Financial Officer 
Date 
5/3/18 
 

