                  Menu Home About Archives Community Centres Visitor Attractions Leisure Libraries Sport Outdoor Activities Youth Adult Learning      Home » About High Life Highland » Governance Governance Riaghladh   High Life Highland is a company limited by guarantee with charitable status.  The relevant company documents relating to this are available below in Adobe Reader (PDF) format by clicking on the blue file icon.  If you do not have Adobe Reader, you can download it for free from Adobe . Memorandum and Articles of Association Certificate of Incorporation (Companies House) Confirmation of Charitable Status (Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator) Annual Report and Accounts to 31 March 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report      Home About Recruitment Board Meetings Governance Board Directors Trading Company Directors Heads of Service Principal Managers Sponsorship and Partnerships Newsletter Privacy and Cookies Feedback High Life Highland The Company HQ buildings are located in Inverness and Dingwall. We operate leisure centres, libraries, museums and a host of other services on behalf of The Highland Council. High Life Highland is a company limited by guarantee registered in Scotland No. SC407011 and is a registered Scottish charity No. SC042593 High Life Highland shared Inverness Botanic Gardens's post. Saturday, April 7th, 2018 10:09am  3    View on Facebook High Life Highland Thursday, April 5th, 2018 5:16pm Don't miss out on An Evening With Isla Grant tomorrow Strathpeffer Pavilion! Get your Tickets now. An evening with Isla Grant - Strathpeffer Pavilion Just back from 54 sell out shows in Australia and New Zealand and Ireland, Isla will be bringing a brand new show to the strathpeffer pavilion ,performing favourites and some brand new songs Start time 7.30 pm Doors time 7.00 pm Tickets available Here, by calling 01997 420124, Junes Cards in Dingwal... highlifehighland.com 4    View on Facebook High Life Highland Saturday, March 31st, 2018 12:05pm Last chance to nominate a member of the High Life Highland team for outstanding customer service! Nominations close today! https://www.highlifehighland.com/nominate-member-team/ Nominate a member of the team! - High Life Highland Each year, High Life Highland recognises top performing staff and volunteers across the organisation at the annual staff awards. During the event Staff and Volunteers who have made a special contribution to the charity and it’s customers are recognised for the contribution which they have made. We... highlifehighland.com 6    View on Facebook High Life Highland Friday, March 30th, 2018 12:04pm If you have received outstanding customer service from a member of the High Life Highland team please nominate them for a staff award? Nominations close 31st March! https://www.highlifehighland.com/nominate-member-team/ Nominate a member of the team! - High Life Highland Each year, High Life Highland recognises top performing staff and volunteers across the organisation at the annual staff awards. During the event Staff and Volunteers who have made a special contribution to the charity and it’s customers are recognised for the contribution which they have made. We... highlifehighland.com 4    View on Facebook High Life Highland Thursday, March 29th, 2018 2:51pm Have you received outstanding customer service from a member of the High Life Highland team? Why not nominate them for a staff award? Nominations close 31st March! https://www.highlifehighland.com/nominate-member-team/ Nominate a member of the team! - High Life Highland Each year, High Life Highland recognises top performing staff and volunteers across the organisation at the annual staff awards. During the event Staff and Volunteers who have made a special contribution to the charity and it’s customers are recognised for the contribution which they have made. We... highlifehighland.com 56 3    View on Facebook  Latest From Twitter RT @InverLeisure : We still have spaces in next block of our junior & pre-school activities starting on Mon 16th April, please see website f…  h  J  R  @hlhsocial  - April 12, 2018 Newsletter Subscription Sign up to the High Life Highland mailing list here.    Given email address is already subscribed, thank you! Oops. Something went wrong. Please try again later. Please provide a valid email address. Thank you, your sign-up request was successful! Please check your e-mail inbox. Please complete the CAPTCHA. Please fill in the required fields.  Contact Us  Where To Next? Home About Archives Community Centres Visitor Attractions Leisure Libraries Sport Outdoor Activities Youth Adult Learning  High Life Highland is a company limited by guarantee registered in Scotland No. SC407011 and is a registered Scottish charity No. SC042593. Registered office 12/13 Ardross Street,  Inverness IV3 5NS.  Telephone: 01463 663800.  Email: [email protected] We use our own and third party cookies. If you continue browsing we consider you accept the use of cookies.  Read More  Accept                                         