 
 
 

 

 

SHARP BUSINESS SYSTEMS UK: GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING 

April 2018 

 

Introduction 

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. This involves carrying out calculations that show 
the difference between the average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not 
involve publishing individual employee’s data. 

According to the Office of National Statistics, the mean national gender pay gap across all businesses 
in the UK with more than 250 employees is 17.4%, while the median figure is 18.4%.  

We are required to publish the results on our own website and a government website. This 
information below is based on data correct on 5th April 2017.  

Pay information 

  The mean hourly pay difference between men and women is 29% lower for women.  
  The median hourly pay difference between men and women is 27% lower for women. 

At Sharp Business Systems UK (SBS) our overall mean gender pay gap is 29%. This is based on the 
average hourly rate of all women working at SBS, compared to the average hourly rate of all men 
working at SBS. The average hourly rate for women is 29% lower than the average hourly rate for 
men.  

The main reason for the gap at SBS is that we have too few women in senior roles and a 
concentration of women in lower paid roles. Looking at the proportion of men and women at SBS, 
we also have too few women in our organisation overall. See table below. 

Our industry (office products and solutions) traditionally employs more men than women. The 
majority of the roles in our organisation are in sales and engineering. We have made some headway 
in Sales over the last 12 months however we get very few applications from women for engineering 
roles. This is something that we want to change.  

We recognise that if we do not affect change, then we continue to miss out on a wider pool of talent 
during recruitment, and we continue to overlook the potential of our employees.  

We are reviewing how we can improve our gender pay gap by supporting women working at SBS to 
progress in their careers with us and by making SBS a place where more women want to work.  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
What is the proportion of men and women in each quarter of our payroll? 

On 5th April 2017 the SBS total workforce was 75% men and 25% women. 

 
Top quartile 
 
Upper middle quartile 
 
Lower middle quartile 
 
Bottom quartile 
 

 

Bonus information 

Men 
89.1% 

85% 

81.5% 

42% 

Women 
10.9% 

15% 

18.5% 

58% 

  The proportion of men receiving a bonus is 31% (this includes commission). 
  The proportion of women receiving a bonus is 25% (this includes commission). 
  The mean bonus pay difference between men and women is 46% lower for women.  
  The median bonus pay difference between men and women is 67% lower for women.  

Bonus includes commission and performance bonus. We have a smaller proportion of females in 
commission earning roles, which is where the higher “bonus” values are typically earned.  

What we are doing to reduce the gender pay gap at SBS  

Career development 

  We are holding focus groups with employees to understand what we can do to support female 

talent to develop and successfully apply for higher paid roles. 

  Working with line managers to ensure that everyone identified with career potential has an 

appropriate development plan in place to support them. 

  We have launched a High Potential Programme which provides additional training and support 
to selected employees. We expect the women on this programme to progress more quickly to 
more senior roles than they would have had we not introduced this development programme.  

  We want to increase the number of female mentors we can offer to our employees so we are 

investigating setting up a mentoring scheme with women working in senior roles at our 
European organisation, Sharp Information Systems Europe. These mentors will be available to 
both men and women and will increase the profile of women in management.   

Attracting more women 

  As this gap is reflective of our industry as a whole then we recognise that it will take time to 

close, however we take responsibility for improving our recruitment processes.  

  We are seeking advice from our recruitment partner on how to reach more women when 

advertising sales and engineering roles. We are seeking commitment that at least one male and 
one female qualified candidate is presented for each vacant position where possible. 

 
 
 
  We will review our recruitment material to ensure that we market Sharp as an employer in a 

way that is attractive to both males and females. 

Family friendly working culture 

  We are looking at ways to improve our working culture to make it more family-friendly, to 

benefit both men and women.  

  We are running training for managers to ensure that the family friendly working policies 

currently in place are fully understood and operated.  

  We are also running a pilot scheme at one of our UK offices which offers increased home 

working and flexi-time around core working hours.  

We welcome this opportunity to improve our organisation.  

I confirm the information published above is accurate. 

 

Sarah Coates, 
Head of HR, Sharp Business Systems UK PLC 
 
 

 

Stuart Sykes,  
Managing Director, Sharp Business Systems UK 
 
 

