ONECOM LIMITED GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

At Onecom, our ambition is to be an employer of choice for everybody, regardless of gender. We want 
our people to enjoy working within the organisation, and to ensure they do, we champion employee voice, 
encourage new ideas and nurture talent.

In the last 12 months Onecom has launched Employee Plus, a programme of rewards and learning, which 
ensures our employees get the most out of their time with Onecom. It is our aim to provide personal 
development opportunities to all Onecom employees.

GENDER PAY & BONUS GAP

Difference between 
male and female

Median

Middle

Gender Pay Gap

16.67%

Gender Bonus Gap

67.74% 

Mean
Average

21.05%

59.69%

Workforce at time of collection was 46% female and 54% male
Data collected 5 April 2017

Proportion of Employees Receiving a Bonus

Male

Female

18%

28%

82%

72%

Bonus
No Bonus

The largest factor driving Onecom’s gender pay gap is that a greater proportion of men (81%) are employed at 
a senior level, or in higher paid technical roles. These roles subsequently fall into the upper pay quartile. The fact 
that there are a greater proportion of men in the upper pay quartile has a significant impact on our gender pay 
gap. Within the lower middle and upper middle pay quartiles there is a near-on equal distribution of male and 
female employees. On average, Onecom employs the same proportion of both men and women in its middle 
pay quartiles.

Onecom employs a higher percentage of males in the lower paid quartile (65%), compared to women. Staff 
employed in our telesales teams have lower basic salaries, and the majority of staff within these teams are male. 
The lower salaries here are reflective of the fact that these employees have the opportunity to earn uncapped 
commission and bonuses. 

DISTRIBUTION OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES BY HOURLY PAY QUARTILES

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

35%

65%

46% 54%

49% 51%

19%

81%

Male
Female

The figures above were calculated using the standard methodologies set in the Equality Act 2010 Regulations 2017 (Gender Pay Gap Information). 

By focusing on both our Leadership Advancement Programme and Future Leaders Training, Onecom will ensure 
that both male and female employees are developing the required leadership skills, paving the way for their 
future success within Onecom.

Onecom will continue to appoint the best candidate for a position, regardless of their gender or other protected 
characteristics (defined by the Equality Act 2010).

I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

Darren Ridge
Onecom CEO

OLGPGRVrs 1.0 - 02.2018

