   World Class Filtration Solutions MENU Home Industries Aerospace and Defence Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the aerospace and defence industry? Where are filters used within the Aerospace and Defence industry? Hydraulics Lubrication Coolants Fuel Avionics and Environmental Control Air and Acoustics Food and Beverage Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the Food and Beverage industry? Where are filters used within the Food and Beverage industries? Breweries Soft Drinks Mineral Waters Wine Bottlers Dairies Food Processing Steam Filtration Sparging Gasification Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the Gasification industry? Where are filters used within the Gasification industry? Gasification and Pyrolysis Life Sciences and Scientific Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why is porous media used within the Life Science and Scientific industries? Where is porous media used within the Life Science and Scientific industries? Diagnostics Medical Analytical Pharmaceutical Microelectronics Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters, diffusers and vents needed within the microelectronics industries? Where are filters, diffusers and vents needed within the Microelectronics industries? Semiconductor Manufacture Solar Power Panel Manufacture LED Screen Manufacture Nuclear Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why is filtration needed within the Nuclear industry? Where is filter technology used within the Nuclear industry? Waste Packaging and Storage Decommissioning and Decontamination Power Generation Fuel Production Filtered Containment Venting Systems Coalescing Retrofit and Special Design Filter Elements Nuclear Services Pharmaceutical Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the Pharmaceutical industry? Where are filters used within the Pharmaceutical industry? General Pharmaceutical Biotechnology Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Formulation and Filling Clarification and Prefiltration Sterile Liquid Filtration and Bioburden Control Pharmaceutical Venting and Gas Filtration Veterinary Medication Steam Filtration Sparging Porous Media and OEM Materials Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are porous media and materials used within industry? Where are porous media and materials used? Acoustics Aeration, Diffusion and Sparging Filtration and Separation Venting and Flame Arresting Wicking and Fluid Transfer Suction and Vacuum Hold Down Printing Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why is filtration needed within the inkjet industry? Where are filters used within the inkjet industry? Superwide and Graphic Arts Packaging and Coding (CIJ) Ceramic Printing Textile Printing Bulk Ink Filtration Printhead Process Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the Process industries? Where are filters used within the Process industries? Chemical Processing Fine Chemical Production Petroleum Refining and Petrochemical Production Catalyst Recovery Polymer Melt Toiletries and Cosmetics Powder Fluidisation, Mixing and Solids Handling General Industrial Steam Filtration Transportation Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the Transportation and Automotive sector? Where are filters used within the Transportation and Automotive sector? Motorsport and High Performance Vehicles Trucks and Commercial Vehicles Cars Water Porvair: Your partner in filtration and separation Why are filters needed within the water treatment industries? Where are filters used within the Water Treatment industries? Municipal Water Treatment Waste Water Treatment Irrigation Process and Utilities Water Products Custom Engineered Solutions for the Aerospace Industry Filter Elements for the Aerospace Industry Filter Assemblies for the Aerospace Industry Filter Kits Differential Pressure Indicators (DPIs) Valves Fuel Tank Inerting Filters Last Chance Filters and Strainers Custom Engineered Solutions for the Nuclear Industry Nuclear Vent Breathers Automated Liquid Filtration Systems Crossflow Filtration Systems Glovebox Penetration Systems Custom Engineered Solutions HEPA Filtration Pulsed Jet Self Cleaning Air and Gas Filters OEM Products for the Inkjet Industry Metallic and Cleanable Filters Filter Elements and Cartridges Sinterflo® F Sintered Metal Fibre Sinterflo® P Sintered Metal Powder Sinterflo® M Metal Mesh Sinterflo® MC Sintered Metal Composite Leaf Disc and Solid Plate Filters Candle Filters for the Polymer Melt Industry Rempak™ Candle Filters for the Polymer Melt Industry Polymeric and Disposable Filters Pre-Filters Carbofil™ Active Carbon Filters Cryptofil™ Filter Cartridges for the Removal of Cryptosporidium Oocysts Klearfil™ Absolute Rated Pleated Depth Filters Microfil™ Absolute Rated Pleated Glass Fibre Cartridge Filters Polyfil™ Absolute Rated Pleated Polypropylene Cartridge Filters Tekfil™ Polypropylene Depth Filter Cartridges Tekfil™ GV Filter Cartridge Trapfil™ Polypropylene Guard Filters Tekfil™ Nylon Meltblown Depth Filters Membrane Filters Aquafil™ Single Layer Polyethersulphone Membrane Cartridge Filters Biofil™ II Polyethersulphone Membrane Cartridge Filters Biofil™ Plus Polyethersulphone Membrane Cartridge Filters Chemifil™ Polypropylene Membrane Cartridge Filters Fluorofil™ ePTFE Membrane Cartridge Filters Fluorofil™ Plus High Flow Sterile Gas Filter with ePTFE Membrane Fluorofil™ F100 PTFE Membrane Cartridge Filters Hydrofil™ Nylon 6.6 Membrane Filter Hydrofil™ Plus Dual Nylon 6.6 Layer Membrane Cartridge Filters Vinofil™ Double Layer Membrane Filter Junior Filters Biofil™ Junior Filters for Small-Scale Applications Fluorofil™ Junior Filters for Small Scale Applications Microfil™ Junior Filters for Small-Scale Applications Polyfil™ Junior Cartridges for Small-Scale Applications Ventafil™ Autoclave Vent Filters Filter Element and Cartridge Housings Disposable Capsule Filters High Purity Flow Restrictors and Diffusers GasPro™ Flow Restrictors Fluidisation and Powder Handling Units Sinterflo® MC Fluidising Media Vyon® Porous Polymer Fluidising Media Sinterflo® P Metal Powder Aeration Units Flow and Sound Control Sinterflo® P Metal Powder Cylinders Spargers Sinterflo® MC Filter Plates GasPro™ Flow Restrictors GasPro™ Chamber Quick Vent Diffuser Filters Battery Vents and Flame Arrestors Porous Cups and Bushings Vyon® Silencers In-Line and Last Chance Filters Union Filters and Miniature Housings In-Line and Last Chance Filters for the Inkjet Industry GasPro™ In-Line Gas Filters Metal Filter Discs In-Line Elements and Screens Disposable Diffused Aeration Units Vyon® Disc Diffusers Vyon® Tubular Diffusers 7" ‘Easy Fit' HDPE Dome Diffusers Membrane Tubular Diffusers Membrane Disc Diffusers Scientific Instruments Chromatrap® Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP) Assay Kits Filtration Media and Materials Sinterflo® F Sintered Metal Fibre Sinterflo® P Sintered Metal Powder Sinterflo® M Metal Mesh Sinterflo® MC Sintered Metal Mesh Composite Vyon® Sintered Porous Plastics BioVyon™ Sintered Porous Plastics GasPro™ TEM Series Filters Flow rate chart Gas compatibility chart In-line gas filters News Events Resources About Us Quality Engineering, Test and Laboratory Services REACh New Product and Material Development Porous Polymers (Vyon® and BioVyon™) Porous Metals (Sinterflo®) Advanced Bespoke Systems Investor Relations Queen's Award for International Trade Careers Departments at Porvair Filtration Group Learning and Development at Porvair Graduate Programme and Apprenticeships Vacancies Production Manager PFG Inc Our History Keystone Filter Contact Us Where We Are Become a Distributor Search  Legal Notices DISCLAIMER  Whilst every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the content within this website, due to continuous product development, the data contained is subject to constant revision and Porvair Filtration Group Ltd . reserves the right to change, alter or modify its contents. This website is provided for general information only and should not be depended on as the single source of information for decision making. This website may also contain historical information which is no longer current and is available as a reference only.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS  By using this website you are accepting the following terms and conditions.  Links  We make every effort to ensure that links from this website to external sites, webpages and downloads are current and appropriate. Porvair is not responsible for and has no control over any resources, content, products or services that may be offered through any linked external sites; these are accessed at your own risk.  Security  We make every effort to make sure our systems and website are secure and free from viruses and damaging files. It is the users responsibility to ensure your hardware is running up-to-date anti-virus software. We accept no responsibility for any technical issues or damage to any computers or equipment that arise as a result of using our website.  User Code of Conduct  The user must use this site only for lawful purposes, and in a manner which does not restrict or inhibit the use of this site by any third party. You must not:   impersonate another resident, customer or other person  submit false or misleading information  submit or upload computer viruses or any other harmful file or programme that may damage the website, our systems or our users' systems  use language that is inappropriate, offensive, threatening or in any way objectionable  use the website or material taken from the website to harass, threaten, stalk, abuse or otherwise violate the rights of others, including rights of privacy.   Website content, copyright and trademarks  © Copyright Porvair Filtration Group Ltd . All rights reserved.  All content contained within this website (including, but not limited to, text, graphics, logos, icons, images, videos and design) is protected by international copyright, trademarks and other relevant laws. All content within this website is the property of Porvair plc or the respective owners, and must not be copied, reproduced or distributed in any way without prior express written permission from Porvair or the owner.  Exceptions include downloading a copy of any material for your own personal, internal, non-commercial use, provided you keep intact all copyright and other proprietary notices. This does not create a licence to the user under any copyright, trademark, patent or intellectual property right of Porvair Filtration Group Ltd .  Company registered in England and Wales, no. 888596. Registered office: 7 Regis Place, Bergen Way, North Lynn Industrial Estate, King's Lynn, Norfolk, PE30 2JN, United Kingdom.  PRIVACY  This privacy statement sets out the data processing practices carried out through the use of the Internet by or on behalf of Porvair plc and its subsidiaries and associated companies (“us” or “we”). If you have any requests concerning your personal information or any queries with regard to these practices, please contact us.  Cookies  Our website uses cookies to ensure that our visitors have the best user experience. These cookies are unique to your web browser and stores information such as your preferences. Cookies do not collect or store any personally identifiable information. You can change your cookie preferences at anytime within your web browser settings.  Information collected  We collect personal information from visitors to this website through the use of enquiry forms and document uploads. We may share certain data about our site visitors' traffic patterns with partners or other parties. However, we do not sell any information about individual users.  Use of personal information  We process personal information collected via this website for the purposes of:   Planning and managing our workload and/or business activity;  Providing you with press releases or other information and responding to your queries;  Recruitment, order processing, account administration and obtaining feedback from website visitors; and  Maintaining information as a reference tool or general resource.   Disclosure  We will only disclose personal information to other companies in the Porvair plc group of companies and to suppliers we engage to process data on our behalf or as otherwise required by applicable law or regulations.  Internet-based transfers  Given that the Internet is a global environment, using the Internet to collect and process personal data for the purposes set out above necessarily involves the transmission of data on an international basis. Some of the countries to which data may be transmitted may not provide the same statutory protection for your data as your home country. By browsing this website and communicating electronically with us you acknowledge and agree to our transferring and processing personal data in this way.  Your rights  In addition to the policies and procedures we employ to safeguard your data, your personal data is protected by Directive 95/46/EC and its local implementing legislation including the Data Protection Act 1998 in the UK. This provides, among other things, that the data we hold about you should be processed lawfully and fairly. It should be accurate, relevant, and not excessive. The information should be kept up to date, where necessary, and not retained for longer than is necessary. It should be kept securely to prevent unauthorised access by other people. You have the right to see what is being held by us about you and to correct any inaccuracies.  ACCESSIBILITY  We aim to ensure that our website is accessible for all people and believe this site meets the level A guidelines laid down by the  World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).  If you have any problem accessing any part of this site or would like further information please contact: info@porvairfiltration.com . Legal Notices Related Resources Marketing and Technical Documentation Supplier Quality Assurance Requirements (Segensworth) Gender Pay Gap (UK Divisions) Get in touch with Porvair Filtration We'll connect you to the right industry specialist Become a distributor See the benefits of being one of our partners Can't find what you're looking for? Search any term here. Get in touch Find the right industry specialist at Porvair Filtration Group Locations General Numbers General Numbers: +44 (0)1489 864330 The Americas: +1 804 550 1600 Asia: +86 (0)712 2878955 Related News Related news articles Porvair acquires Keystone Filter 1 Mar 2018 Porvair awarded HEPA filter contract at Hanford Waste Treatment Plant 27 Feb 2018 Related Events Where you can see us 11 Jun 15 Jun ACHEMA 2018 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 26 Jun 28 Jun World Nuclear Exhibition Paris Nord Villepinte Sitemap Legal Notices Design by Storm12 Copyright Porvair Filtration Group. All rights reserved. Porvair Filtration Group is a subsidiary of Porvair plc. © Porvair 2018   To ensure we give you the best experience on our website we use Cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. However, if you continue without changing your settings we will presume you are happy to receive all cookies on the Porvair website. Continue        