GENDER PAY GAP

A message from Claire Rowe, CEO of Shoosmiths LLP:

‘We  are  pleased  that  Shoosmiths’  median  pay  gap  stands  below  
the  national  average  but  we  recognise  there  is  still  more  work  
to be done. 

With this in mind, we have already started work to understand what 
can be done to reduce this gap. For example, over the past 12 months 
we set up a Gender Equality Working Group which reports directly to 
the board. The group was established in recognition of the fact that 
a series of actions need to be taken at a firm level to advance gender 
equality. Membership is representative of the firm and includes myself. 
It provides a sounding board to discuss issues and potential solutions. 
Likewise,  the  board  brings  ideas  to  the  group  to  collaboratively  pin 
down  the  steps  to  be  taken,  giving  our  employees  direct  input  and 

Claire Rowe
Chief executive | Shoosmiths LLP

influence on decisions that will affect them.

Similarly, we have established a network of groups across our offices 
which  contribute  to  our  diversity  and  inclusion  strategy.  Inspired 
by  the  Lean  In  movement,  the  networks  aim  to  support  the  career 
development of staff by helping address the issues they face in both 
their  work  and  personal  life  that  could  hinder  their  development. 
On  top  of  this,  we  are  introducing  agile  working  across  our  offices 
while at the same time offering alternate progression routes such as 
introducing a Legal Director role.

We are confident that these initiatives and further discussion across 
the organisation will help Shoosmiths to reduce its gender pay gap.’

We confirm the data reported is accurate. In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, Shoosmiths is 
required to carry out Gender Pay Gap reporting.

PAY DATA

HOURLY RATE OF PAY

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN GROSS HOURLY 

EARNINGS FOR ALL MEN AND ALL WOMEN

Mean

15.41%

Median

12.98%

PAY QUARTILES

The image below shows the gender distribution at Shoosmiths when 
colleagues are placed in to four equally sized quartiles based on pay.

male

female

69%

81%

73%

Quartile 1 
(lower)

Quartile 2 

Quartile 3 

Proportion of male and female staff in quartiles

60%

Quartile 4
(upper)

INCENTIVE DATA

INCENTIVE PAY GAP

PROPORTION OF STAFF RECEIVING AN INCENTIVE

Proportion of male colleagues 
receiving an incentive payment

Proportion of female colleagues 
receiving an incentive payment

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN INCENTIVES  

PAID TO MEN AND WOMEN

Mean

17.98%

Median

0%

6%

8%

94%

92%

Incentive

No Incentive

