Essex County Council 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

 

Data Snapshot date: 31 March 2017 

Published: 29 March 2018 

 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

Covering Statement 

Our gender pay gap analysis demonstrates that at Essex County Council, on average women earn 9.7% less 
than men. Our objective is to close this gap and we are already working towards a number of interventions which 
should see the gap reduce over the next three years.  
 
Through our workforce strategy, we are working on becoming a learning organisation, creating an environment 
where learning opportunity is a shared experience, building a stronger approach to career paths, succession 
planning and workforce planning, all while ensuring that our diverse workforce delivers on our corporate 
objectives. We are also investing in people analytics which means we will be tracking key indicators on an 
ongoing basis. 
 
We are also midway through phase two of an organisation wide re-design and planning for the implementation of 
a new pay and grading system, a fairer way to pay our employees the right level for the job – which equates to an 
initial investment of £3.2m. 
 
As part of the annual pay review, ECC historically has awarded a mixture of consolidated and unconsolidated 
payments, based on performance. The 2017/18 performance year will be the last time that Pay is linked to 
performance.  
 
I can confirm that that the Gender pay gap reporting for Essex County Council has been completed following the 
department of equalities and Acas guidance and is correct. 
 
Pam Parkes  
Director, Organisational Development & People 
 
 
 
 
 

Gavin jones 
Chief Executive 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

Background 

• Gender pay gap reporting requires organisations with 250 or more employees to report their pay 

gap 
 
There are six different measures with their own calculations defined on the .gov website 
 

•

• A written statement, included in this document, confirms the accuracy of the calculations as per the 

•

Equality Act 2010 (Gender pay gap information) regulations 2017 
 
The analysis was carried out on the “snapshot” date of 31 March 2017 as per the Gender pay gap 
reporting requirements 
 

• Public sector organisations must publish their report on the government website as well as their own 

website by 30 March 2018. The retention period for this report will be three years 
 

• Agency workers and those contracted via a service centre are not included in the dataset. All other 

relevant employees are included 
 
The definition and calculations required (and followed) can be found at 
https://www.gov.uk/guidance/gender-pay-gap-reporting-guidance. 

•

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

Results – as at 31 March 2017 

1. Mean Gender Pay Gap (Hourly pay) 

2. Median Gender Pay Gap (Hourly pay) 

3. Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap (Non consolidated, performance related bonus) 

4. Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap (Non consolidated, performance related bonus) 

5. Proportion of Males and Females receiving a bonus payment 

6. Proportion of Males and Females in each pay quartile 

9.7% 

9.7% 

14.3% 

14.5% 

Male 

Female 

19.0% 

18.4% 

Quartile 
Quartile 1 
Quartile 2 
Quartile 3 
Quartile 4 

Male 
27.4% 
19.6% 
25.2% 
32.3% 

Female 
72.6% 
80.4% 
74.8% 
67.7% 

