NAAFI Gender Pay Gap Statement 2017 

 

 
From  2018  Employers  in  the  UK  with  250  or  more  employees  are  required  to  publish  certain 
information relating to their gender  pay  gap.   This statement sets out the relevant  information for 
NAAFI, as at the snapshot date 5th April 2017.  Many factors contribute to, or cause, a gender pay gap, 
and these will vary between different employers and employment sectors.  We have set out in this 
statement the main factors we consider are contributing to our gender pay gap. 
 
NAAFI 
NAAFI is a non-profit retaining organisation that employs 367 people from the UK. Our main aim is to 
‘Serve the  Services’.   We do this by  supporting  the UK Armed Forces  across  the  globe  through the 
provision  of  retail  leisure  and  catering  facilities.    In  addition  to  this  we  provide  employment 
opportunities to the spouses and dependents of current UK Armed Forces in overseas locations, where 
there is little alternative employment availability and we actively recruit veterans where possible.  In 
terms of employee turnover, NAAFI are well below the national UK average and has a significant pool 
of long standing employees as 50% of our people have been employed for 5 years and above.   
 
We  are  committed  to  equality  and  to  underpin  this,  we  have  a  standard  set  of  pay,  terms  and 
conditions that apply equally across all NAAFI employees, irrespective of their gender.  We aim to be 
a fair and progressive employer and we are committed to tackling inequality and promoting diversity.  
Our employment arrangements comply with all relevant UK equality legislation and our policies have 
been created in close partnership with Unite the Union to prevent any kind of discrimination.  
 
Our pay arrangements aim to fairly reward staff contribution and performance, and are benchmarked 
against the pay rates of similar roles in the wider UK economy.  Pay rates and increases are negotiated 
annually with Unite the Union and are applied equally across all NAAFI UK employees, excluding the 
Non-Executive Directors.  We operate three bonus schemes, which have clear and transparent metrics 
measured  against  business  and  individual  performance  objectives.  The  rules,  arrangements  and 
payments of which are agreed annually by a Remuneration Committee.  
 
It  is  important  to  note  that  NAAFI  exists  to  ‘Serve  the  Services’,  and  as  a  result,  we  have  been 
significantly impacted by the reducing number in our Armed Forces over the last 10 years.  This has 
been particularly felt in Germany, our largest trading estate.  This has resulted in a decrease in our 
business  for a number of years, whilst contemplating the  possible closure of the  entire  business in 
2020.    During  this  time,  we  have  downscaled  our  operation,  particularly  in  our  corporate  support 
office, which has reduced from circa 160 employees to 17 in just over 5 years.  
 
This period, has led to few middle management positions becoming available for recruitment and no 
senior positions have become available.  The senior manager team that have been retained have long 
periods of service and are essential for their skills and knowledge in either drawing the business to a 
successful  closure  or  finding  alternative  trading  avenues  to  secure  an  enduring  business  post  the 
closure of British Forces Germany. 
 

Due to this, our gender pay gap report does not accurately reflect our commitment to diversity in our 
opening statements and there are several further organisational, demographic and historical reasons 
for this outlined in our summary statement at the end of this report  
 
Gender pay and bonus gap  - Difference between men and women 
 
Hourly Pay Gap 
Bonus Pay Gap 

Median (mid-range) 

22.6% 
-6.5% 

 
 
 

Mean (Average) 

46.7% 
21.2% 

 

The main reasons for the mean pay gap is the high proportion of males at the very top end of our 
business and the difficulty in recruiting female managers for our Naval Canteen Service.  Excluding this, 
the gap would significantly reduce.  These individuals all have lengths of service of 10 years or more 
and as such, further recruitment has been unnecessary during this time.  
 
The median pay gap is caused by the fact that there are less male employees in the lower grades, as 
such there are more females to each grade.  When this is translated into a mean average, the male in 
the middle of the group is at a higher grade than the female at the same point in the female group.  If 
this were matched grade to grade and role to role, the pay and benefits for both genders would be 
exactly equal. 
 
The main reasons for the mean bonus gap is that only 8 women receive a bonus in comparison to 30 
men.  When looking at this in context, one must take into consideration the narrative in relation to our 
NCS  Business  summary  below,  where  there  are  17  men  who  receive  a  bonus  in  that  area  of  the 
business and only 1 woman. 
 
The median pay gap is because, when ranked into order, the NCS female manager in the middle of the 
table is at a more senior grade than the NCS male manager in the middle of that table. 
 
Proportion of males and females receiving bonus pay 
 

 

Female 4.94%

Male 14.63%

 
We consider the main reasons for the differences in these proportions are predominantly in relation 
to the NCS part of our business, where the ratio of male managers in comparison to female is 17:1 and 
the lower upward mobility of our lower paid female employees. 
 
Quartiles 

 

Lower 
Quartile

33,7

%

66,3

%

Lower Middle 

Quartile

Upper Middle 

Quartile

45,7

%

54,3

%

32,6

%

67,4

%

Upper 
Quartile

23,1

%

76,9

%

Female Male

 

Female Male

 

Female Male

 

Female Male

 

Summary Statement 
 
As  reflected  in  the  last  paragraph  of  our  opening  statement,  our  gender  pay  gap  report  does  not 
accurately  reflect  our  commitment  to  diversity  as  set  out  in  our  opening  statements.    Whilst  the 
Company has provided a narrative as to the reasons for this in the body of this report, there are several 
organisational,  demographic  and  historical  reasons  that  is  it  important  to  understand  in  our 
organisational context, these are outlined below:  
 

•  The majority of our recruitment is from our local military community.  The demographic of the 
military is predominantly male and our local recruitment pool is made up from their spouses 
and dependants.  This leads to the overall gender composition of our recruitment pool and 
therefore our workforce having a high incidence of females in the lower paying roles. 

•  Due to the frequent departure of members of the military to different locations, turnover in 
this part of the business is highest as these lower paid predominantly female employees leave 
as their partners are ‘posted’.  50% of our total employee base has service of five years or less 
and  the  frequent  turnover  and  relatively  short  employment  periods  of  the  lower  paid 
employees results in less promotion opportunity and therefore upward mobility.  This has led 
to an increased opportunity for promotion and therefore upward mobility, in the other part of 
our workforce.  This represents 50% of our employee base, all of whom are static and have 5 
years of more service.  This results in under representation of females in the higher quartiles. 
•  The Upper middle quartile, is made up from a significant number of our Naval Canteen Service 
(NCS).  This  job  is  working alongside  members of  the  Royal  Navy  on  HM  Ships and  involves 
many months deployed at sea. Historically, this job was only available to men as females were 
not allowed by the Royal Navy to work on board ships. Many of the managers in this area of 
our business  have  worked for NAAFI for  over  15 years  and their recruitment  pre-dates  the 
Royal Navy’s change of policy.  Turnover is very low in this part of our business and so jobs do 
not become available very often, exacerbated by the reducing size of the Fleet.  When roles 
become available, we have historically faced difficulties in attracting and therefore recruiting 
female employees to that particular area of our business. 

•  The Upper middle quartile is also made up of ‘Mess Managers’, who historically transferred in 
to  our  employment  from  the  Compass  Group.  At  the  point  of  transfer,  the  majority  of 
transferees were male and since that transfer there has been a relatively low turnover of staff. 
•  The Upper Quartile is made up of a large proportion of male employees. These employees all 

have a significant lengths of service and were recruited 10 or more years ago.  

 

 
Actions to address any pay gaps 
 
Our gender pay gap is predominantly caused by having fewer women in senior grades. Our recruitment 
pool  and  community  demographic  and  low  turnover  of  staff  will  make  it  difficult  to  close  the  gap 
completely. We are committed to reducing our pay gaps where we can.  We will work to improve this 
by: 
 

1.  Monitoring the outcomes of management decisions in relation to recruitment to ensure no 

gender, or other bias is occurring 

2.  Reviewing recruitment processes to try and attract more female candidates for roles in which 

they currently are under-represented 

3.  Maintain clear and transparent pay and benefits and terms and conditions 

 
These will need a period of time to take effect.  We will be monitoring progress on a regular basis and 
reporting on this in future gender pay gap statements. 

 

 
 

