Sir Robert McAlpine Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Ed McAlpine
Executive Partner, Sir Robert McAlpine.

“I am pleased to be able to share with you  
Sir Robert McAlpine's Gender Pay Gap Report.
The pay gap results reflect what is recognised as 
an industry-wide issue and the reasons for this are 
explored within the report.
Family is a core enduring value at Sir Robert McAlpine. 
As a family, we value and celebrate the differences 
that make each of us unique. At Sir Robert McAlpine, 
we are sure that diverse teams are richer, more 
creative and productive.
We have always been committed to driving 
progress in the construction sector and we have 
done this through engineering excellence and 
innovation. 
We are now driving progress through our 
commitment to developing an equal, diverse and 
inclusive workforce.

We have committed to an ambitious journey 
to significantly improve Equality, Diversity and 
Inclusion (EDI) across our business and the wider 
industry.
As part of our EDI strategy, we have a number of 
initiatives in place that have contributed to the 
progress that we have made to date. We know 
there is much more to do and we are absolutely 
committed to delivering change within our 
business.”

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Introduction

Since 1869, Sir Robert McAlpine has been responsible 
for some of the most iconic buildings and structures in 
the country, from the Glenfinnan Viaduct on the West 
Highland Railway to the Olympic Stadium, a modern 
masterpiece of design and engineering, which became 
the centrepiece of London’s hugely successful 2012 
Olympic Games.

Through the application of the latest techniques 
and innovation, we have consistently pushed the 
boundaries of engineering and, in doing so, have 
helped to drive the industry forward.

None of this would have been possible without the 
skills, flair, courage and commitment of our workforce, 
who have always been, and will remain, the backbone 
of our success.

In the nearly 150 years since a young Robert McAlpine 
founded his building company in the North Lanarkshire 
village of Newarthill, the industry has changed out of all 
recognition.

However, construction today is facing a new challenge. 

The lack of diversity in our workforce – specifically the 
number of women entering the sector and in senior 
roles – is starting to hold the industry back. Shockingly, 
in 2018 women represent just 13% of the construction 
sector. 

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Introduction

There is an acknowledged skills shortage and the 
industry is reliant upon overseas workers to provide the 
necessary expertise and experience. With Brexit on 
the horizon, this situation is only going to become more 
acute.  

The solutions are clear – we need to provide young 
women with access to the best STEM education 
possible so that they possess the skills the sector 
will require for the future; we need to ensure female 
school leavers and graduates actively consider a role 
in construction; and we must increase flexibility in 
roles, allowing both men and women to take career 
breaks and fit their professional lives around their 
personal lives. We must also support the development 
and appointment of more female leaders and ensure 
adequate role models for the women in our talent 
pipeline.

Sir Robert McAlpine is committed to building on 
its proud heritage of foresight and innovation to 
create a more inclusive sector and encourage a 
more diverse industry workforce. 

‘‘We welcome the gender pay reporting 

initiative which lifts the lid on inequality within 
the workforce and encourages major players in 
a sector to work together to address industry-
wide inclusion challenges.’’

Paul Hamer, Sir Robert McAlpine Chief Executive

Women represent just

13%

of the construction sector

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Our gender pay details at a glance

 The gender pay gap is the percentage difference 
between the average pay of all men and all women 

within an organisation.

This shows the mean and median difference in the fixed hourly earnings between 

men and women who work for Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd as at April 5th 2017. 

This shows the difference between the bonus payments made to 

relevant men and women in the year 2017.

Our analysis of the Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd workforce 
demonstrates that, in line with the rest of the industry, 
we employ significantly more men than women at every 
level of the business and across all pay grades. 

Our analysis of comparable roles reveals that we 
reward men and women fairly for similar work. 
However, the lower representation of women at 
senior levels within the organisation skews the 
results and opens up a gap in pay levels between 
men and women.  

Sir Robert McAlpine is working hard to address the 
gender pay gap. 

As an industry leader, we recognise that Sir Robert 
McAlpine has a responsibility to do more to address 
the issue of gender balance and remove the issue of 
gender pay forever.  

This shows the proportion of men and women who

received a bonus in the 2017 financial year.

Results relate to Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd. Figures calculated as at 5th April 2017 

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Our gender pay details at a glance

This shows the proportions of men and 
women employed by Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd 
in the lower, lower middle, upper middle and 
upper quartile pay bands 

This shows the mean and median pay gap for 
each pay quartile band. In the lowest pay quartile 
for example, the mean gender pay gap is 5% and 
the median pay gap is 8.2%.

Results relate to Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd. Figures calculated as at 5th April 2017 

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

We have developed an ambitious 
range of initiatives designed to 
encourage more women and other 
under-represented groups into the 
industry and provide them with the 
career development and flexibility to 
retain them long into the future.

Reflecting and supporting our core value of family, our 
EDI strategy touches every part of our business and 
all our operations – from project sites to the Executive 
Board room.

Our vision is to create a business where everyone 
can thrive. Where people are respected and 
treated fairly. Where people are supported and 
rewarded for their efforts. Where our people have 
role models they can relate to and where we 
proactively lead the industry on becoming truly 
equal, inclusive and diverse.

Designed to ensure diversity is woven into the fabric of 
everything we do, this strategy is delivered through a 
range of separate initiatives including:
Schools outreach programmes

At many of our sites we are working with local schools 
and helping pupils get excited about the range of 
roles that the construction industry offers. Our experts 
are working with science and maths departments to 
demonstrate how theoretical skills can be implemented. 
We are sending digital construction specialists into 
schools to train computer students in the basics of 
design modelling. We are talking to geography and 
social science classes about sustainable development 
and the advances in environmental protection that are 
being driven by the industry.

And we are offering on-site days to all pupils to help 
young people get a sense of what opportunities there 
are within our sector.

Encouraging and supporting young people to explore 
construction as a career path is a cause we have 
always championed, so much so that our leadership 
team of the time was integral in the founding of the 
Construction Youth Trust in 1961.

‘‘Our outreach work has unfortunately confirmed that there 
are many women and girls who don’t believe a career in 
construction is for them.  One of the most powerful things 
we do to inspire change in this area is to provide female 
role models - engineers, quantity surveyors and other 
professionals – to highlight the wide variety of careers 
available within the industry and to inform on potential 
careers routes. My experience has shown me that our 
industry needs to do so much more to promote construction 
as a viable career for women and I’m delighted that
Sir Robert McAlpine is confronting this head on.”
Liz Waters, Communications and Community Manager 
Broadgate Redevelopment Framework, Sir Robert McAlpine.

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Inclusion workshops and training

Working with WISE and Skills 4 Ltd, we have developed 
a programme designed to attract more talent from the 
Black and Minority Ethnic and LGBT communities. 
As well as providing information and recruitment 
through community channels, we have a programme 
of workshops for existing employees to overcome 
unconscious bias and to ensure a working environment 
where everyone feels welcome and accepted. In 
addition, through Leadership and Management 
Development programmes, we are building our 
capability to manage intergenerational teams. 

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Flexible working

We are a family business and treating our colleagues 
like family is part of the McAlpine way; in fact, it is one 
of our core values. That means we take respecting our 
people and the balance between their personal and 
professional lives very seriously. We offer our employees 
flexible working arrangements through our family 
friendly policies. Examples of flexible working practices 
include part-time working and job sharing. 

At Sir Robert McAlpine we pay the same amount 

for equal roles regardless of gender

£ £ £

£ £ £

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Our Executive Board and Senior Leadership Team are 
already acting on their commitment to encourage more 
diversity at senior levels through their involvement in 
our programme of personal mentoring. Chief Executive 
Paul Hamer is currently mentoring three of our people to 
become leaders for the future, two of whom are female.

We support each person to achieve their 
ambitions and fulfil their potential.

Leadership and role models

We believe in the concept that ‘if you can see it, you can 
achieve it’.

To help encourage diversity at senior levels, we are 
increasing the visibility of our own female leaders and 
challenging stereotypes by ensuring we showcase the 
women on our sites who are successfully fulfilling roles 
that some would have thought traditionally male. We 
stand by the fact that there are no male or female roles, 
only people and their individual capabilities. 

We currently have one female Executive Board member, 
Karen Brookes, and a strong pipeline of future female 
leaders being recruited and developed across the 
business. 

“I have been supported by Sir Robert McAlpine throughout my 
career, from student engineer to project director. Now that I 
am in a leadership position, I am committed to creating an 
inclusive project environment where everyone is supported in 
their development and given the opportunity to take on new 
challenges.”
Alison Cox, Project Director, Sir Robert M cAlpine.

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Health and wellbeing

In addition to family friendly policies and flexible working 
we have taken positive action to target bullying and 
mental health. Our employee assistance programme 
enables each of our people to seek support when 
facing challenging issues at home or in work. Listening 
to our employees is critical so we actively encourage 
feedback and honest dialogue to help us target any 
issues and support our people.
Attracting a diverse group of employees

The Executive Board is supporting a radical new 
approach to how we attract and assess talent, including 
the creation of a new Employee Value Proposition. This 
means rethinking how we communicate our career 
opportunities to incoming talent, the language we use 
and the places we advertise.

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Karen Brookes, Sir Robert M cAlpine’s newly appointed Director 
of People & Infrastructure has overseen the development and 
implementation of the firm’s new People Strategy. 

“As we approach our 150th anniversary, we have an 
opportunity to break the mould of how things are done in 
the UK construction sector. We are committed to diversity 
and inclusion in all parts of our workforce and we have an 
opportunity to create a truly diverse meritocracy: one in 
which we welcome talent from the widest possible pool, who 
will have the opportunity to advance based solely on their 
capability and competence. As an employer, we have a duty 
to provide the right culture, support network and learning 
and development to make this happen. Gender pay reporting 
provides us with a real focus and an opportunity to do things 
differently. I intend to make the most of this.”

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017Taking action to build an inclusive and diverse workforce

Paul Hamer, Sir Robert McAlpine 
Chief Executive

“We are incredibly excited at the prospect of 
seeing our business become more diverse and 
inclusive over the coming years, and we are 
proactively facilitating that change at pace. The 
gender pay report is one piece of the EDI picture 
and helps demonstrate our industry’s, and our 
own, current lack of senior female leaders. I am 
reassured to note that we pay the same amount 
for equal roles regardless of gender and I am 
encouraged by the changes that we are beginning 
to see at a senior level. Sir Robert McAlpine will 
become an industry leader for diversity and 
inclusion and I look forward to being part of the 
team that achieves this much-needed change, 
one which will have benefits to our sector for 
generations to come.”

The data in this document is accurate and in line with Government reporting regulations.

Paul Hamer
Sir Robert McAlpine Chief Executive

Karen Brookes
Director of People & Infrastructure

Edward McAlpine
Executive Partner

SIR ROBERT MCALPINE | GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017