Reigate Learning Alliance Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 

 
Introduction 
Reigate Learning Alliance (RLA) is committed to providing all employees with equal opportunity. Our aim is 
to fully engage, value and enable our employees. We have a diverse work force that works collaboratively 
and successfully.  
 
The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean or median hourly rate of pay that male 
and  female  employees  receive.  The  mean  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  average  hourly  earnings  of 
men  and  women.  The  median  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  midpoints  in  the  ranges  of  hourly 
earnings of male and female employees.  
 
The figures in this report are based on the hourly rates of pay for staff as at 31 March 2017 (the ‘snap shot’ 
date)  and  relate  to  ‘full-pay  relevant  employees,’  which  means  all  employees  who  were  earning  their 
normal  rate  of  pay  in  the  period  in  which  the  ‘snap  shot’  date  fell.  Anyone  who  had  unpaid  leave  or 
reduced  pay  due  to  maternity  leave  etc.  has  been  excluded  from  the  data.  We  were  also  required  to 
include bonuses paid to staff. However, as we are in education, we do not pay bonuses and therefore no 
data for has been supplied for this in the report.  
  
The hourly rate of pay for staff includes basic pay, area allowance and responsibility payments before tax 
and pension deductions, but after salary sacrifice (child care vouchers). Overtime pay is not included.   
 
The RLA operates three different contracts: teaching, support staff and catering/sports centre. However, 
for the purpose of the gender pay gap report, we have used the same multiplier of 36.42 hours per week 
for all staff. 
  
Gender Pay Gap Figures for 31.3.17 
Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay = 11.00% 
Median gender pay gap in hourly pay = 8.39% 
Mean bonus gender pay gap = N/A 
Median bonus gender pay gap = N/A 
Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment = N/A 
 
These figures show the percentage of males and females in each quartile when we  order hourly rates of 
pay from the highest to lowest and then group them into four equal quartiles: 
  

  
Upper quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Lower quartile 

Male 
Female 
41.07%  58.93% 
29.09%  70.91% 
36.36%  63.64% 
21.82%  78.18% 

 
Although  we  have  a  higher  percentage  of  female  staff  in  each  quartile,  the  highest  percentage  of  male 
employees are in the upper quartile, whereas the highest proportion of female employees are in the lower 
quartile, which creates a gender pay gap. 
 
A  large number  of female  employees  work  in  support  staff  roles,  which tend  to  be  in  the  lower quartile 
with lower hourly rates of pay. This is often a proactive choice, as it fits in with their work/life balance, as 
the majority of support staff roles are part time.  
 
The RLA has, and where appropriate, looked at the opportunity to offer job shares, including higher paid 
roles, where possible. This provides those who wish to work part-time with access to higher paid jobs. 
  

Overall, the workforce is 67.87% female and 32.13% male. Females make up the largest percentage in each 
quartile range, indicating that there is a broad spread across each of the quartile pay ranges.  
 
How we are addressing the Gender Pay Gap 
 
Recruitment  
We will continue to recruit from the widest possible talent pool and to ensure our job adverts are gender 
neutral. We will continue to develop diverse candidate lists for jobs and to understand the importance of 
interviewing people with diverse panels in order to avoid unconscious biases. The RLA continues to review 
each post and where possible and appropriate, makes them available as job shares. 

The RLA is actively involved in several ‘get into teaching’ initiatives, which encourage both new people into 
the profession and those who have enjoyed a career break. The RLA operates its own PGCE qualification in 
conjunction with Canterbury Christ Church University. This qualification is a part-time course, which can be 
undertaken in the evenings over two years. This provides opportunities for both males and females to gain 
a qualification and a new career, whilst managing their existing lifestyle. 

Retention  
Once we have the right people, we want them to stay. To support them we  will offer a range of flexible 
working  options  at  all  levels  where  this  is  feasible  and  appropriate  to  ensure  the  continued  operational 
efficiency of the organisation. The RLA is committed to offering training to encourage staff to develop their 
career opportunities. 

Development  
We know that career paths can be varied including pastoral and academic roles. In order to develop our 
staff,  we  will  maintain  a  healthy  staff  development  budget.  Staff  are  encouraged  to  think  about  what 
courses/training  they  can  undertake  each  year  in  order  to  improve  their  knowledge,  skills  and 
employability. We will continue to run various courses through the S7 Consortium, which is made up of 9 
sixth  form  colleges  in  the  south  east  of  England.  These  courses  include  several  aimed  specifically  at 
encouraging career progression. 
 
Staff will continue to be encouraged to study for specialised/professional qualifications and to be re-skilled 
through internal job moves. This will include, where appropriate opportunities to become apprentices with 
professional training and qualifications. We will maintain our mentoring system to support new entrants, 
those needing subject support and special mentors to assist when a member of staff needs additional help.  
 
Pay evaluation 
 
The highest proportion of employees are teachers, who are paid on set scales according to years of service 
and  performance-related  pay,  which  is  standard  practice  across  the  education  sector.  All  teachers 
regardless of gender are able to progress through the scale provided there are no issues with performance. 
A  standard  teacher  with  no  additional  responsibilities  is  able  to  progress  from  the  bottom  of  the  lower 
middle quartile to the top of the upper middle quartile simply based on years of service and performance-
related pay. 
 
When reviewing the pay level for a particular job, we will continue to compare like for like roles within the 
Reigate Learning Alliance, review what other sixth form colleges pay for similar roles and refer to the sixth 
form  college  salaries  and  numbers  survey  in  order  to  establish  an  overall  framework  that  is  consistent, 
transparent and fair. 
 
The  upper  quartile  is  made  up  largely  of  managers  e.g.  Course  Leaders,  Heads  of  Department,  Support 
Staff Managers, Directors and Senior Leadership Team members. These posts are selected through a fair 
and equitable process to find the best person for the job. Whilst this quartile is largely full-time personnel, 
there are a number of part-time, job shares within it. This is also the quartile where the gender pay gap is 
least effected. 

