                                                                                                                         Skip to the main content                Donate        Menu     Site search:     Search        Want support?  Talk to us     How we help Discover the many ways that CHAS can help...  Who you'll meet At Rachel House  At Robin House  At hospital  In your home  Medical care Specialist care  End of life  Family support Children  Parents and carers  Brothers and sisters  Emotional support Spiritual  Counselling  Bereavement  Get involved Find out how you can get involved...  Support us As an Individual  As a Group  In Partnership with us  Our shops  Fund a day  Fund our work  Local Hospice Lottery  Volunteer Volunteer with us  Volunteer Opportunities  Volunteer Application  Join our team A new career at CHAS  Current vacancies  What's on Latest news Read our latest news  Events View all events  About us Learn more about CHAS and the work we do...  Our Stories Families  Our supporters  Our volunteers  Our Trustees  The CHAS Alphabet  Our vision Our ambition  Our Publications  Contact us View all contact details  Add your story - Care Opinion  Make a referral           Home        About us        Our vision        Our Publications      Publications and Reports   You can find our Annual Report, strategy papers and research papers here. If you have any problems downloading files or can't find what you're looking for, please call 0131 444 1900 .        Annual Report and Accounts 2017  Annual Report
and Accounts of Children’s Hospice Association Scotland
for the year ended 31 March 2017.  Download the Annual Report (PDF, 2.12MB)  CHAS Strategic Plan  With the help of the Scottish Government, we commissioned a ground-breaking
piece of research that established, for the first time, the full scale of the number of
children in Scotland with life-shortening conditions. It is from this work that we
know three children die each week but the more compelling statistic for us was
that we are reaching only one of these families. We need to do much more to
reach out to every family that needs our help and this theme of reaching every
family is at the very core of our new three year strategic plan.  Download the CHAS Strategic Plan (PDF, 2.95MB)  An Evaluation of the Diana Children's Nurse Service Report  We are proud to announce that an independent report by Children in Scotland has recognised that we are improving delivery of, and access to, palliative care through our work in hospitals and communities. They also recommend that our approach should be extended across Scotland.  Download the Evaluation of the Diana Children's Nurse Service Report (PDF, 1.55MB)  Children in Scotland requiring Palliative Care:
identifying numbers and needs (The ChiSP Study)  This report sets out the findings from an investigation into the numbers of children and young
people with life-shortening conditions in Scotland, and what current evidence tells us about their,
and their families’, psychosocial support needs.  Download ChiSP Study (PDF, 953KB)  CHAS Gender Pay Report 2017  Following the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 UK companies with over 250 employees must publish their gender pay gap data within one year of their 'snapshot date'. For voluntary organisations, including CHAS, this date is 4 April. CHAS took its 'snapshot' data from 5th April 2017.  Our report publishes data on the mean and median salary pay gap, the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile and the pay gap between males and females for staff who receive bonus payments.  CHAS Gender Pay Report 2017 (PDF, 268KB)      If you want to talk to someone about your own situation or find out more about our services, please get in touch:     0131 444 1900    support@chas.org.uk     Join our community on social media:     Facebook         Twitter         Instagram         LinkedIN         Youtube             Privacy policy  Join our team  Media centre  Contact us    © 2018 Children's Hospices Across Scotland | Site by Primate  Children’s Hospices Across Scotland is a trading name of Children’s Hospice Association Scotland.  A Scottish charity and a company limited by guarantee. Scottish charity number SC 019724.  Registered in Scotland number 136410. Registered Office: Head Office, Canal Court, 42 Craiglockhart Avenue, Edinburgh EH14 1LT.       