Human Resources

UNIVERSITY OF READING 
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2017

1

INTRODUCTION

This report sets out the gender pay gap data calculated in compliance  
with the relevant regulations. It also details the actions we are taking  
to close the gender pay gap at the University of Reading.

The University of Reading is a large, broad-based 
university with more than 20,000 students. We are 
recognised as one of the top 200 universities in the 
world and we have around 4,000 staff. It is a diverse 
and multi-national workforce, with very different 
occupational groups including cleaning and catering 
roles, grounds, security and maintenance roles, 
administrative and technical support, professional, 
academic and research roles, senior academic 
and managerial roles.

The University of Reading has a proud history 
of diversity and inclusion – we were the first 
English university to appoint a female professor 
(Edith Morley, 1908). In 2015, the University created 
the role of Dean for Diversity and Inclusion, to provide 
direction and encouragement on diversity and inclusion 
matters, and a male and female professor were 
appointed to this role on a job share basis. Members 
of the University Executive Board are diversity 
champions and act as role models and spokespersons. 
The University holds a bronze Athena SWAN1 award 
and several academic Schools have silver awards.

As a university, we are committed to the Joint 
Negotiating Committee for Higher Education 
Staff (JNCHES) remit for pay bargaining between 
the employers and the recognised trade unions, 
and we are subject to implementing the outcomes 
of the nationally agreed pay bargaining process. 
Under the terms of the Framework Agreement, 
which was designed to embed equity within higher 
education pay scales, the University implemented 
a pay and grading structure in 2006, which covers 
staff from cleaners through to associate professors 
and professional roles on a single pay spine. We have 
separate, but similar, local structures for professorial 
staff and senior professional and managerial staff. 
The University has a formal Remuneration Committee 
which has oversight of pay for all senior staff.

The University of Reading uses the HERA 
(Higher Education Role Analysis) job evaluation scheme 
to determine the appropriate grading of roles within 
our framework structure. Each grade has a set pay 
range. There is automatic pay progression within 
each grade, so that staff move through the pay range 
on an annual basis, irrespective of their gender.

	The	Athena	SWAN	Charter	was	established	in	2005	to	encourage	and	recognise	commitment	to	advancing	
the careers of women	in	science,	technology,	engineering,	maths	and	medicine	(STEMM)	employment	in	higher	education	
and	research.	It	has	since	been	expanded	to	recognise	work	undertaken	in	arts,	humanities,	social	sciences,	business	
and law	(AHSSBL),	and	in	professional	and	support	roles.

1	

2

University of ReadingGENDER PAY GAP 
VERSUS EQUAL PAY

REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS

The Gender Pay Gap and Equal Pay are different, 
although closely linked, issues. The gender pay gap 
is a calculation of the difference in the average earnings 
of men and women in an organisation. It is an average 
across all jobs and encompasses all staff, including for 
example, cleaners, professors and senior managers,

The gender pay gap figure is indicative 
of general occupational segregation, as observed 
in the wider workplace. Men and women are likely 
to be spread unevenly throughout the jobs and levels 
in an organisation with more women in roles at lower 
grades (such as cleaning, catering, clerical work) 
and more men at senior levels.

Equal pay looks at whether an organisation 
is providing equal pay for work of equal value and 
focuses more on the pay structure and contractual 
terms. The University has a robust process and uses 
job evaluation as appropriate to ensure equal pay 
for work of equal value.

The government has introduced mandatory 
gender pay gap reporting for all organisations with 
250 or more employees. Organisations are required 
to take a snapshot of pay data as at 31 March annually 
and publish the following statistics:
•  the difference in mean and median hourly rate 

of pay between male and female employees

•  the difference in mean and median bonus payments 

between male and female employees

•  the proportion of male and female employees 

who received bonus pay during the period of twelve 
months preceding the snapshot date

•  the proportion of men and women in each quartile 

of the organisation’s pay distribution.

As part of our public sector equality duties, 
the University is required to publish equality and diversity 
data annually, which includes information on the gender 
pay gap. However, the basis for the calculation differs 
from that set out in the government’s regulations, 
so the results are not directly comparable.

3

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017WHAT IS OUR 
GENDER PAY GAP?

PAY QUARTILES

Lower  
Quartile

Lower Middle 
Quartile

38%

62%

37%

63%

Upper Middle 
Quartile

Upper 
Quartile

43%

57%

58%

42%

 % of women 

 % of men

The chart above illustrates the gender composition 
of each quartile of the University’s pay distribution. 
Women represent nearly two-thirds of staff in the lower 
and lower middle quartiles and just over half of staff in the 
upper middle quartile. However, men represent a greater 
proportion of staff in the upper quartile.

Difference between men and women

Hourly rate of pay

Bonus

Mean
19.58%

18.71%

Median
20.99%

40%

The table above shows the mean and median gender pay gap 
based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date of 31 March 
2017. It also captures the mean and median difference between 
bonuses paid to men and women in the 12 month period 
up to 31 March 2017.

There were 3919 full pay relevant employees for the purposes 
of calculating the mean and median hourly rate pay gap. There 
were 3990 relevant employees for the purposes of calculating 
the mean and median bonus pay gap. This figure is higher 
as it also includes those staff who were on reduced pay 
as at the snapshot date, but who received a bonus payment 
in the relevant 12 month period.

Proportion 
of women who 
received a bonus

Proportion 
of men who 
received a bonus

25.82%

21.25%

74.18%

78.75%

 Received an award (%) 

 Did not receive an award (%)

These pie charts show the proportion of men and women 
who received a bonus in the relevant 12 month period. 
A greater proportion of women received a bonus than men.

4

University of ReadingCOMMENTARY

The gender pay gap is significantly affected by occupational segregation and reflects 
the uneven distribution of men and women throughout the pay structure; with women 
being over-represented amongst the lower grades in cleaning, catering and clerical 
roles, and men being over-represented amongst the higher grades in professorial 
and senior management roles.

The gender pay gap is within expected tolerances 
(it is generally understood that an acceptable tolerance 
level is a pay gap of less than 5%) for staff within the 
single pay and grading structure. This is because we 
have a banded incremental pay scale and the use of job 
evaluation has led to greater consistency in the pay and 
grading of roles. However, a pay gap is more apparent 
amongst senior academic and managerial staff whose 
roles are on separate structures, as there is greater 
scope for salaries to be influenced by market factors 
and recruitment and retention pressures.

The University is committed to recognising 
and rewarding achievement across all activities 
and for all staff. We have a suite of reward and 
recognition arrangements to recognise contributions 
that go beyond the normal expectations of the role, 
which include: Celebrating Success vouchers (ranging 
in value from £25 to £100), lump sum awards (one-
off payments ranging in value from £100 to £3,000) 
and consolidated salary increases. All staff are eligible 
for awards under these schemes.

Whilst a greater proportion of women received 
a bonus in comparison with men, men received a higher 
value bonus on average than women. A further analysis 
of the bonus data shows that the difference in the bonus 
paid to men and women, particularly the median, has 
been affected by the number of Celebrating Success 
awards made to women – nearly twice as many awards 
were made to women than men. Whilst the median 
value of Celebrating Success awards was the same for 
men and women, the difference in the number of awards 
made relative to lump sum payments has contributed 
to the bonus pay gap. This is influenced by occupational 
segregation as there are more women in lower-graded 
roles which are less broad in scope and offer fewer 
opportunities to perform beyond normal expectations. 
The value of awards that can be made through the 
Celebrating Success scheme is restricted, whereas 
managers have greater discretion over the value 
of lump sum awards commensurate with the nature 
of the activity undertaken. The reward and recognition 
schemes are monitored and reported annually 
to a number of internal committees for discussion.

5

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017WORKING TO CLOSE 
THE GENDER PAY GAP

The University of Reading recognises that reporting gender pay gap  
data and analysing the reasons for the gap is a valuable exercise.

The University promotes the fair treatment 
of all employees in its reward and recognition 
arrangements and is committed to understanding 
and addressing any significant factors contributing 
to the gender pay gap. We have a strong commitment 
to diversity and inclusion, as demonstrated 
by the work of the Deans for Diversity and Inclusion 
and our participation in a number of charter 
marks, for example the Athena SWAN awards, 
which focus on the advancement of women’s 
careers across higher education.

The University will implement, or has already 
implemented, a suite of initiatives to address 
the issue, including, but not limited to:

Participation in leadership roles
•  The University has set institutional targets to address 
gender imbalances in the take-up of leadership roles. 
By 2020 we aim to:

•  have at least 30% female staff in all key University 
committees and boards, including the University 
Executive Board (current baseline membership 
of University Executive Board is 14%)

•  maintain our current baseline of at least 45% 

of either gender in the overall University Leadership 
Group – including University Executive Board, 
Deans, Heads of School and Heads of Function 
(the Leadership Group is currently 50% male 
and 50% female)

•  improve the gender balance amongst the 

professoriate, with at least 40% female professors 
(current baseline is 31.3% female).

Enabling progression
•  We have revised the University’s promotion procedures 

for academic promotions, including introducing new 
criteria for citizenship and leadership, explicitly valuing 
diversity and inclusion work and contributions. This 
has led to much higher levels of applications across 
all our academic staff and very strong success rates, 
particularly for our female staff.

•  We will continue to actively support and encourage 

women to apply for promotion to professor and 
senior management roles through mentoring and 
development opportunities such as the AURORA 
programme (a women-only leadership development 
programme run by the Leadership Foundation).

Raising awareness 
of diversity issues
•  The University achieved excellent scores for diversity 

and inclusion in our staff engagement survey conducted 
in 2017. All staff groups rated this as our highest scoring 
area, with 94% of respondents agreeing with the 
statement “I feel The University of Reading acts fairly 
regardless of race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, 
pregnancy/maternity/paternity, disability or age.”

•  The University has diversity champions 

at University Executive Board level who act 
as role models and spokespersons for their areas. 
They take responsibility for identifying and raising 
potential diversity and inclusion-related issues 
in meetings and discussions across the University. 
They work with the Deans for Diversity and Inclusion, 
network groups and Reading University Students’ 
Union (RUSU) officers.

•  The University created the role of Dean 

for Diversity and Inclusion in 2015 to provide 
direction and encouragement on diversity 
and inclusion matters. The University has 
appointed a male and female professor 
to perform this role on a job-share basis.

6

University of ReadingGender Pay Gap Report 2017

Commitment to Athena SWAN
•  We have an institutional target to achieve 

University-wide Athena SWAN gender charter 
mark silver level recognition by 2020, with all STEMM 
Schools holding awards and all other Schools working 
towards gender equality charter mark recognition.

Family-friendly policies
•  The University provides a childcare voucher 
scheme. We have 329 parents in the scheme 
and this is split as 37.69% (124) men and 62.61% 
(206) women

•  The University provides occupational 

•  The University currently holds a bronze award 

and all but one of our STEMM Schools now hold 
Athena SWAN awards (three silver awards and 
three bronze awards). Our first non-STEMM 
School has submitted an application.

Reward and recognition
•  We have an institutional target to reduce 

the pay gap that exists at senior (professorial 
and Grade 9) levels to 5% or below by 2020 
(current baseline is 8.8%).

•  In order to achieve this, we will undertake 

a review of the relevant pay structure in order 
to ensure a robust, equitable and transparent 
pay and grading structure.

•  We will undertake further analysis of the University’s 
reward and recognition arrangements to understand 
the reasons for the differences in the values awarded 
and produce guidance for managers.

maternity, paternity, adoption and shared parental 
leave schemes. To enable staff to take parental 
leave without negative career consequences 
and with career development support on return, 
the University fully reimburses Schools for the 
replacement costs when staff take maternity 
leave or shared parental leave.

Staff networks
•  The Women@Reading staff network champions 

issues of gender equality across the University, 
working with University leadership and supported 
by People Development in Human Resources.

•  We aim to give people internally and externally 

visibility of role models through the Faces of Reading 
project to raise aspirations and challenge stereotypes.

7

STAFF AT THE UNIVERSITY 
SHARE THEIR EXPERIENCES

The University wants 
to provide visible examples 
of flexible working and 
the supportive working 
environment and challenge 
stereotypes through the 
Faces of Reading project.

Staff in a variety of roles 
and at different stages of their 
careers and lives have shared 
their experiences and some 
examples are shared below.

8

Jessica Del Rio 
Technical Manager

In my current role of Technical Manager, I have a small team 
and together we run all the undergraduate classes for food 
microbiology and support research in the Food Biosciences building.

I’ve been at Reading since I graduated in 2001. I worked in heart 
disease research for four years and then I moved to microbiology 
in 2005.

For me, work is always about those you’re alongside. A difficult 
task is made more do-able if the people around you are kind and 
supportive; a sense of humour helps too.

I am part of Technical Services. It’s been great being linked up with 
technicians from all across campus through meetings, training and 
social events such as technicians’ get-togethers with tea and cake.

Currently, I’m working as a job share. My managers have 
been really supportive; if I’ve needed to change my hours around 
or reduce my hours, it’s always been fine. The University is very 
flexible in this way and I think an employer giving you that kind 
of freedom means you invest more in your work.

University of ReadingKing Wong 
IT Business Partner

Chimene Daleu 
Research Scientist

Whether you’re at home or at work, relationships are undeniably 
important. As an IT Business Partner, my focus is on business 
relationship management so I can ensure IT delivers the service 
that the University’s departments and schools are expecting.

I enjoy my career and my work, but I also have a bigger role – 
I’m a father to my children and a husband to my wife. That’s why 
I was grateful for the opportunity to take Shared Parental Leave 
(SPL) following the birth of my son, Luke.

The HR team was really helpful in going through my options 
with me, and my manager helped to make sure my responsibilities 
were split between the other Business Partners while I was on leave. 
Because of this, I was able to help my wife, Khrystyna, but I also had 
the opportunity to get to know my son.

What I found is that going to work is the easy part. At home, you 
have to dress and feed your child, bathe them and read to them, 
make sure they sleep and take part in activities. And just being there 
for them is integral. That time is very hard to achieve when you’re 
working: you come home, de-stress, and do all the basic necessities, 
but just spending time with your child is when you really bond with 
them and see what type of person they’re becoming. Thanks 
to the University’s flexibility, I got that time with Luke.

In 2009, after completing my master’s degree in Italy, I secured 
a scholarship for international students and joined the University 
of Reading as a Meteorology PhD student. My research focuses 
on understanding tropical climate and its variability through the study 
of convection simulation and interactions with large-scale circulation.

The arrival of my daughter at the end of the second year 
of my PhD was a challenge. As a single mum, solely responsible 
for childcare, and with no family nearby, I needed to find a way to balance 
both motherhood and my studies. Professionally, it was quite disruptive, 
but the University was incredibly supportive.

With the help of my supervisors and mentors, I was able to adopt 
a flexible approach to my work; I began to split my time between home 
and my office. I was also given a computer so I could continue with my work, 
and bursaries from the University to spend on childcare arrangements.

This was extremely beneficial, and made what could have 
been a stressful time much easier. Having regular meetings with 
my supervisor was really, really helpful – they enabled me to remain 
in the loop while I wasn’t in the office.

Thanks to this help from the University, family commitments haven’t 
held me back – I was awarded PhD Researcher of the Year 2013 Faculty 
of Science winner. Now, I work as a Research Scientist in the Department 
of Meteorology. I’ve been given opportunities to pursue my personal 
interests, to lead on research projects, and to develop computer-based 
skills including data implementation, analysis and coding.

I’d recommend Reading – as a place to work and study – 
to anyone. I’m regularly contacted by students back home 
in Cameroon asking how they too can study for a PhD here. 
Since I first arrived, I’ve found it to be a very friendly, welcoming 
environment – something that hasn’t changed during my time here. 
I now have two children, and am looking forward to returning from 
maternity leave to continue my work later this year.

9

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017DECLARATION

We confirm that our data has been calculated 
according to the requirements of The Equality 
Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017.

Sir David Bell (KCB) 
Vice-Chancellor

Mr John Brady 
Director of Human Resources

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

	For	more	information,	please	contact:

Human Resources
University	of	Reading	
Whiteknights	
Reading,	RG6	6AH
hr@reading.ac.uk	
Tel	(0118)	378	6770

	/theuniversityofreading	
	@UniofReading
www.reading.ac.uk

10
B21079 03.18

