 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Report 

The Priory Learning Trust supports the fair treatment of all staff, irrespective of gender, through our 
transparent recruitment process, pay and professional development.  

On the snapshot date of 31 March 2017, we employed 440 people of which 26% were male and 74% 
female.  

The gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay received by male and females within 
The Priory Learning Trust on 31 March 2017.  

Mean Pay Gap 
10.5%  

 

Median Pay Gap 
7.3%  

What is the mean? The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly pay for males 
compared to females at all levels cross The Priory Learning Trust.  

What is the median? The median represents the midpoint across a list of values. If we list all females 
and males, the median is the middle number. The median pay gap is the percentage difference in 
average hourly pay for the middle male compared to the middle female working for The Priory 
Learning Trust.  

Pay quartiles by gender 

The distribution of male and females is shown in the pay quartiles. These are calculated by splitting 
the whole workforce into four equal parts based on hourly pay from lowest to highest. The 
percentage of male and female is then calculated for each quartile.  

Lower Middle Quartile  Upper Middle Quartile  Upper Quartile  
25.2% M 
74.8% F 

23.4% M 
76.6% F 

32.7% M 
67.3% F 

 

Lower Quartile 
25.2% M 
74.8% F 

 

 

 
Bonus  

Bonus pay is defined broadly under the Regulations as any remuneration that: 

 

 

is in the form of money, vouchers, securities, securities options, or interests in securities; 
and 
relates to profit-sharing, productivity, performance, incentive or commission. 

All bonus pay are included in the calculations, regardless of whether the bonus is discretionary or 
contractual. 

The report includes the difference in mean and median bonus pay and on the proportion of male 
and female employees who received bonus pay. 

The bonus pay gap is the difference in the average bonus pay received by male and females within 
The Priory Learning Trust on 31 March 2017.  

Mean Bonus Gap 
93.6% 

Median Bonus Gap 
-108% 

 
The mean bonus gap is significantly affected due to non-contractual bonus payment given to two 
male employees in exceptional circumstances to the Priory Learning Trust. The bonuses payments 
were awarded in line with our Pay Policy.    

Proportion of employees receiving bonus 
 

4.2% M 0.6% F 

Declaration 
I confirm that the above information has been prepared from our payroll provider data on the 
snapshot date and fairly represents the Gender Pay information for The Priory Learning Trust.  
 

Signed:
 

Neville Coles, Executive Principal   

 

 

 

 

 

