2017 Gender Pay Report, ING UK 

Wholesale Banking

Committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace 

Under new legislation that came into force in the UK in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 employees are required to publish their gender pay gap. 
Across ING’s international network, we promote diversity (including gender diversity) not just because it is the right thing to do but because we can’t deliver on our strategy without 
it. As part of this, we introduced a diversity manifesto, called Success through difference, in January 2016 that applies to all employees worldwide. This official bank policy sets out 
what diversity means at ING, why it is important, and what employees and managers can do. ING was one of 52 firms recognised in the 2017 Bloomberg Financial Services Gender-
Equality Index (BFGEI), the second year we have been included in the listing. 
With in the UK specifically, we have been focussing on building the pipeline of female talent for several years. Our Diversity and Inclusion Forum UK was formed in 2012, focussing on 
improving diversity-related policies and opening up professional development opportunities. With the support of senior management and HR, the region has driven the agenda on: 
Recruitment and promotion:  We have had at least one female managing director on all promotion panels since 2015 and aim to hire 50% female trainees in the International 
-
Talent Programme each year.
Training and events: This includes career coaching for nominated women, all staff training on reducing unconscious bias, mentoring, panel discussions, and lunch and learns.
Maternity and paternity: This includes maternity coaching for parents to be and managers, enhanced maternity benefits and shared parental leave compared to government 
statutory, and improved information about childcare initiatives. 

-
-

In our 2017 promotion round, more women were promoted to the corporate title Director than men, and in 2018 an equal number of men and women are being promoted with 
these decisions entirely based on the merit of the candidates. In the five years since 2012, the proportion of Directors in the UK team that are women grew from 23.5% to 29%. 
Increased numbers of senior women will help close our gender pay gap. 
We know that there is still a significant amount of progress to be made and the rate of change is too slow. We are also aware that changes within our UK business mean that next 
year our gender pay gap is likely to widen further. A significant factor for this is the consolidation of ING’s European trading function in Financial Markets in London in 2017-18.
Financial Markets is an area where we have one of the biggest gender gaps in our industry. However we are committed to continuing to grow our pipeline of diverse talents and to 
continue to provide an inclusive workplace.

Ronald Visser 
Head of Human Resources UK, Ireland and Middle East 
ING Wholesale Banking 

UK | Gender Pay Report | 2017

1

Corporate title pay gap gives a clearer view

As pay is typically linked to corporate title, our gender pay gap is partly driven by the 
larger numbers of men than women in senior roles (particularly at Director and 
Managing Director level). To get a clearer view, we have analysed the pay gap by 
corporate title and also whether the role is in the front office or back office. Front office 
roles are typically in lending, financial markets and corporate clients, while back office 
roles tend to be in support, such as HR, Legal or Corporate Communications.  
These figures suggest a gender pay gap of 31% for front office Director/Managing 
Directors (using the median). At the other end of pay gap scale, it suggests a “negative 
pay gap” (women have higher pay on average) for back office Director/Managing 
Directors of 2%.  

Mean Pay Gap by Corporate Title (salary only) 

35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
(5%)
(10%)
(15%)

Back Office

Front Office

31%

20%

19%

6%

6%

11%

(6%)

(9%)

Staff

Associate/Manager

Vice President

Director/Managing Director

Breakdown of Corporate Title by gender

Median Pay Gap by Corporate Title (salary only) 

Director/Managing Director

Vice President

Associate/Manager

Staff

Note: 5 staff per icon

Women

Men

35%

30%

25%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

(5%)

Back Office

Front Office

31%

18%

15%

9%

5%

4%

3%

Staff

Associate/Manager

Vice President

Director/Managing Director

(2%)

UK | Gender Pay Report | 2017

2

Routes to success: Orange Code & Diversity Manifesto

Orange code
The Orange Code is a manifesto that describes our way of working. It is comprised of 
ING Values and the ING Behaviours. The Orange Code is made up of two parts:
ING Values - the non-negotiable promises we make to the world.  The principles we stick 
to, no matter what.
We are honest. 
We are prudent. 
We are responsible.
ING Behaviours - our way of being that makes us different from the rest. The 
commitments we make to each other and the standards by which we will measure 
each other’s performance.
You take it on and make it happen. 
You help others to be successful. 
You are always a step ahead.

Success through difference
A diversity manifesto, Success through difference, was introduced in January 2016 
which applies to all employees worldwide. It explains what diversity means to ING, why 
it is important, and what employees can all do to promote diversity.
At ING, the term diversity refers to differences of all kinds. By this we mean, differences 
in age, gender, race, background, physical abilities, sexual orientation and religious 
beliefs
Diversity increases our pool of potential candidates. It helps us attract and retain the 
best and brightest talent. 

Women in Banking & Finance (WIBF)
We pay an annual membership fee for all employees who wish to be members of the 
WIBF  and host a number of the forums events internally in our offices. All new joiners in 
the company, whether they be male or female, are invited and advised to join the 
forum. 

UK | Gender Pay Report | 2017

3

Focus on career development programmes

Promotions Panel 

Career Coaching

Maternity Coaching

The ING UK promotion panel assesses if candidates meet the 
competencies for promotion. Since 2016, we have had at least one 
female managing director on all promotion panels. 
Managing Director, Emma Badman, Head of Compliance UK, Ireland 
and Middle East and member of the UK Management Committee 
said: “Our promotion decisions are always made based on merit 
irrespective of the gender of the candidate. Sitting on the panel gives 
me the opportunity to support and guide the next generation of talent, 
which I find to be a very rewarding part of my job.”

Career coaching aims to foster strength and depth of talent in our 
workforce that reflects the diverse world we live in.  In 2016, 10  
women participated in a six-month career coaching programme for 
female talent, with the majority gaining promotion the following year. 
Director Naomi Kirwan, Financial Markets in Global Securities 
Finance (GSF) Sales said: “Since joining ING just over two years ago I 
have had many opportunities to grow my career. This includes 
developing my role to market GSF across Europe, as well as training 
and coaching to further build my management skills. In my promotion 
panel interview, I was able to pitch this and being promoted to Director 
feels like an acknowledgement of this work.”

Since 2015 ING UK has offered maternity coaching which gives 
colleagues an opportunity to explore change, what they can do to 
make it easier, help them effectively manage business issues and stay 
feeling connected through a very important time in their life. The 
coaching is now available to those who go on paternity and shared 
parental leave also.
Director, Alison Beech, HR Information Technology UK said: “My 
maternity coach was able to support me through a successful 
promotion whilst pregnant and helped me to transition smoothly and 
confidently back into my management position after my extended 
maternity leave. I really appreciated having an external support who 
was flexible enough to tailor their coaching specifically to tackle the 
issues that were important to me.” 

Diversity & Inclusion Forum UK 

Unconscious Bias Training

RING Network

The Diversity and Inclusion Forum UK is an eight-member group of 
women and men focussing on improving diversity-related policies and 
professional development opportunities at ING in the UK. The forum 
was established in 2012.
Director and Diversity and Inclusion Forum UK chair, Martha 
McKenzie-Minifie said: “It is hugely rewarding to be part of a forum 
that helps ING to accelerate the pipeline of female talent, support 
diverse teams and foster an inclusive workplace. We know that these 
challenges are not unique to our firm and there is not a quick fix. 
However, I truly believe we are committed to positive change and 
working together we will make it happen.”

Unconscious bias training was rolled out at ING UK in 2014 amongst 
senior managers, and due to its success has now been rolled out to all 
employees. The training was introduced to make managers 
understand the impact their unconscious bias has on the decisions 
they made within their teams.
Managing Director, Global Head of Loan Sales, Kim Bailes said: 
"Knowing our biases is key to fostering a more inclusive culture to 
ensure we have equality of opportunities and treatment. Within ING, 
the UK was the first to adopt a holistic approach to unconscious bias 
that embraced senior management, line managers and team 
members to challenge ourselves to not only know but to consciously 
challenge those biases. This was certainly the greatest impact on my 
inclusive behaviours.”

RING UK is an internal ING network open to all but primarily targets 
employees at Director level and below. RING UK creates a platform for 
junior employees  to meet senior leaders to share ideas and use each 
other as a sounding board. The aim is to aid career development and 
assist juniors in growing their networks across ING.
HR Officer, Marija Sapkauskaite, HR  said: “As a member of the RING 
network, it has given me the opportunity to build relationships with 
colleagues across the bank irrespective of position and location. In a 
bank that champions collaboration – the RING network is an enabler 
for all of the diverse members to come together to build a stronger 
understanding of the business and their opportunities within it.” 

UK | Gender Pay Report | 2017

4

Statutory reporting
Under the government requirement we are required to report our gender pay gap data for ING UK.  
Proportion of men and women in each quartile band

Percentage of men who received bonus pay

Upper
Upper middle 
Lower middle
Lower 

Men
87.1%
69.6%
66.9%
42.6%

ING UK overall gender pay gap

Median 
48.0%
Gender pay gap
Gender bonus pay gap  70.3%

Women 
12.9%
30.4%
33.1%
57.4%

Mean
43.2%
63.4%

5.1%

94.9%

Percentage of men who received
bonus pay

Percentage of men who did not
receive bonus pay

Percentage of women who received bonus pay

12.6%

DECLARATION
I confirm that ING UK’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the 
Regulations. The calculations and data contained in this report have been fully validated and abides by 
the methodology provided in The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap information) Regulation 2017.

87.4%

Ronald Visser 
Head Human Resources UK, Ireland and Middle East

UK | Gender Pay Report | 2017

Percentage of women who received
bonus pay

Percentage of women who did not
receive bonus pay

5

