 

 

 

 
 

 

GENDER PAY REPORTING 2017 

 
 
At Natural Power we recognise that our greatest asset is our people. Diversity & Inclusion is about making a 
sustainable  and measurable difference to business performance and culture by creating a workplace where 
everyone is valued and feels valued. At Natural Power, we believe there’s a strong  moral and commercial 
case for doing  so.  Gender  diversity-in  fact  all  diversity-creates  a  stronger,  sustainable  and  valuable 
business so we need to keep working at creating an environment which is desirable to all our people. 
Our priority is to appoint the best candidate for any given role, so we want to select from the widest 
possible pool of potential recruits. 
 
 
The culture at Natural Power encourages everyone to be themselves and we strive to “help people 
succeed”.  We  recognise  that  reporting  on  gender  pay  helps  to  focus  attention  and  encourages  the 
market  to  work  together  to  create  a  better  balance.  Our  renewable  energy  consultants  include 
engineers,  analysts,  environmental  experts  and  project  managers.  Like  many  other  science, 
technology  and  engineering  companies  the  majority  of  these  roles  have  been  filled  by  men.  To 
achieve our organisational goals we need to attract, retain and harness the skills of all our talented 
people,  both  men  and  women.  We  hope  to  do  this  by  building  an  inclusive  culture  that  celebrates 
diversity of thought, innovation and challenge, so that all of us may flourish.  
 
 
 
PAY GAP (DATA AS AT APRIL 2017) 

Difference in mean hourly rate of pay                   26%  

Difference in median hourly rate of pay                28% 

 
 
Unlike equal pay which refers to paying a man and a woman the same amount for the same, or similar 
work, a pay gap is the difference in average pay between men and women in an organisation. It is the 
result of gender imbalance – having more women in junior roles or fewer women in senior roles, relative 
to men. This means that having a pay gap is likely to persist until organisations have fair representation 
of men and women at every level – something we are trying to address. 
 
 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 
 

  
 

Proportion of Male and Female UK Employees 

According to Quartile Pay Bands

Lower

49%

Lower Middle

61%

Upper Middle

81%

Upper

86%

51%

39%

19%

14%

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

Male

Female

 

 Quartile Band            Male % of empyees    Female % of employees  

                                   Number of People Receiving a Bonus 
 

Females

Males

40%

60%

26%

74%

Proportion who received a bonus

Proportion who received a bonus

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

BONUS GAP (DATA AS AT APRIL 2017) 
 
 Difference in Mean Bonus pay                                 40%  
 Difference in Median Bonus pay                              50%    
 
 
The bonus gap, as with our pay gap, is as a result of gender mix. Bonus amounts tend to increase with 
seniority  where  we  currently  have  more  men  than  women.  Whilst  women  make  up  31%  of  our 
overall workforce in April 2017, only 10% of our senior management team were female. Our analysis 
shows  that  when  we  adjust  for  this  our  mean  gender  bonus  gap  is  -90%.  The  mean  bonus  gap  is 
negative because the gap is in favour of women – meaning their average bonus is higher. 
 
 
WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT IT? 
 
We do not believe in quotas or positive discrimination. We do believe in programmes and initiatives 
that attract the best talent, and foster a culture that gives our people the opportunity to succeed. 
 
We know it’s going to take a long time to be where we want to be, but it’s important we take the right 
actions rather than rush into unsustainable, quick fixes. Fundamentally we need to listen, measure and 
communicate our success. We care about building an environment where all employees have access 
to the same opportunities. We will continue our work towards this in our recruitment by trying to 
ensure that we select the right person for the job, through fair and balanced processes and through 
development opportunities to ensure that merit alone determines who our future leaders are. In order 
to support the women we have we are also starting a women in leadership programme which we hope 
will help support them and allow them to progress and also increase the number of women in senior 
positions.   
 
 
DECLARATION 
 
I confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with the UK government’s 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
Stephen Trotter 
MD  

 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

