Our People

All MAXIMUS businesses in the UK have a strong culture of supporting colleagues, 
working together to provide high quality services and building strong teams.

We undertake regular assessment exercises to ensure that we are meeting the needs of 
our people. In the most recent colleague survey at Centre for Health and Disability 
Assessments, 83% of colleagues said they felt supported. At Health Management, 89% 
of colleagues felt that they were strongly supported at work.

We hold regular training events for our colleagues and offer opportunities to gain or 
extend professional and vocational qualiﬁcations. We also support internships and 
apprenticeships, with many of these leading to permanent positions within MAXIMUS 
businesses.

We recognise achievement through our staff awards programmes and encourage 
initiatives that recognise colleagues on a local level. Our commitment to colleagues
extends beyond the working environment. We support colleagues who volunteer and
those who give their time to local community outreach projects.

We have a tailored 24/7 occupational health advice and support service for all colleagues. 
Recently, we have begun rolling out new health and wellbeing programmes. We also 
provide specialist support for colleagues working in challenging environments. 

Marco Pierleoni
UK Division President

MAXIMUS regularly

recognise high performing

colleagues through our

awards programmes

Remploy are one of
a very small number
of UK companies with

Level 3 Disability
Conﬁdent Leader 

status

MAXIMUS employ over
3,800 people in 270
locations across the UK

CHDA is committed to equality and diversity in our workforce. Through our policies and 
culture we strive to be an inclusive and fair employer. We are a Disability Conﬁdent Leader 
and our human resources team supports our staff development programmes so that everyone 
in the business has an opportunity to maximise their talents. Around 75% of our staff are 
female and we pride ourselves on paying the same rate for the same job and performance. 
Our median hourly pay difference of 2% in favour of males is signiﬁcantly lower than the 
current national median of 18.2%. The mean hourly pay difference of 14.4% in favour of males 
is also better than the national average of 17.5%.

There are a number of reasons for the gap. For example, occupations at lower quartiles tend 
to offer more part-time opportunities than the occupations at the highest rates of pay. There 
are more women in part-time roles and fewer in higher paid full-time specialist roles such as 
technology and ﬁnance. This affects bonus payments, which are gender neutral and linked to 
pay grade and performance. In 2017, CHDA introduced a structured pay strategy to ensure we 
have a consistent approach to pay management. This should mean that over the next few 
years we will improve our gender pay gap.

I conﬁrm that the information in this report is accurate.

Dr Paul Williams
Managing Director, Health Services, MAXIMUS UK

Gender Pay Gap

Mean

14.4%

24.0%

Median

2.0%

18.9%

Pay gap

Bonus gap

Proportion of females and males

in each pay quartile

Lowest pay

quartile

Lower middle
pay quartile

Upper middle
pay quartile

Highest

pay quartile

24%

22%

18%

76%

78%

82%

The proportion of
females and males
receiving a bonus

payment

Females

Males

37.1%

62.9%

44.4%

55.6%

35%

65%

received a bonus

received a bonus

did not receive
a bonus

chdauk.co.uk

communications@maximusuk.co.uk

