What is The Government Gender Pay Gap Report?

All companies in Great Britain (but not Northern 
Ireland) with more than 250 employees are required 
to report their gender pay gap to the government 
Equalities Office by 4 April 2018. The figures given 
will be for the ‘snapshot’ date of 5 April 2017.

The gender pay gap is the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women, expressed 
relative to men’s earnings. It is not the same as 
equal pay, which is covered by the Equality Act of 
2010, and compares whether men and women are 
paid the same salary for performing the same,  
or equivalent, work. 

Hachette UK Ltd and the Hachette UK Group  
in context:

The legal entity Hachette UK Ltd (HUK Ltd) 
(required reporting) is:
Hachette Children’s Group
Headline
Hodder Education
Hodder & Stoughton
John Murray Press
Group functions including Digital, Consumer 
Insight, Finance, Legal, HR and most employees 
of Group IT

For purposes of transparency, we have also chosen 
to report on the Hachette UK Group (HUK Group)   
as a whole, which also encompasses:

Bookouture, Little, Brown, Octopus, Orion, Quercus, 
Bookpoint, Hachette Distribution, LBS

Companies acquired later than April 2017 are not 
included in this year’s figures: Summersdale,  
Kyle Cathie, Jessica Kingsley Publishers.

Gender Pay Gap Report
OUR WORDS HAVE POWER
As the publisher of Malala Yousafzai, J.K. Rowling, Helen Pankhurst and Eve Ensler’s The Vagina 
Monologues, among many other powerful and visionary writers, we know the impact our publishing can 
have on the world.

Our mission is to be the publisher of choice for all people through the books we publish 
and our actions as a company: making it easy for everyone, everywhere to access new 
worlds – of learning, of entertainment, and of opportunity.

We are not alone in the issues we need to address: our gender pay gap, and the bonus pay gap, highlight 
that while we have a 66% female workforce, this proportion is not reflected in the number of women in 
the most senior roles.

OUR 2020 OBJECTIVE IS TO REPRESENT THE 66% FEMALE MAKE-UP OF THE COMPANY OVERALL IN THE 
TOP SALARY QUARTILE. We are signed up to the Publishers Association Inclusivity Action Plan, with a 
target to reach 50% of senior leadership and executive positions filled by women over the next five years. 
 
We are taking action to see significant change, fast: 

RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT: In 2016-17, 86% of promotions in the Hachette publishing 
divisions were of women; 75% of participants in our LEAD training programme are female; we have 
introduced compulsory unconscious bias training for all staff; we are introducing guidelines for gender 
balance of shortlists for all recruitment; our Diverse Future Leaders mentoring programme is into its 
second year, and this year the Gender Balance Network are launching women’s career mentoring.

WORK/LIFE BALANCE: ‘core hours’ scheduling of regular meetings between 10am and 4pm Monday-
Thursday; flexible and part-time working (15% of Hachette UK, and 21% of our female employees are 
part-time); enhanced paternity and maternity leave and parental mentoring.

EMPLOYEE NETWORKS AND A NEW DIVERSITY & INCLUSION APPOINTMENT: our Gender Balance Network 
has a sponsor on the Executive Committee and represents the views of staff at all levels; by June this 
year, we will have recruited a Diversity and Inclusion Manager to lead the change in the Hachette UK 
culture so that it becomes more inclusive and diverse in all respects.

The female/male split of 
Hachette UK employees: 

(These figures do not include 
employees on reduced pay, for example  
maternity pay, sick pay, unpaid leave 
– who are excluded by the government 
reporting structure) 

This compares with industry-wide 
reported figures of 69% women 
(Publishers Association demographics 
survey 2017)

W

72% 
Women 

M

28% 
Men 

W

66% 
Women 

M

34% 
Men 

FOR THE LEGAL ENTITY HUK LTD

FOR HUK GROUP

Of the 11 operating divisions* 
in Hachette UK,  
6 are headed by women  
and 5 by men

*The HUK Operating Divisions are:
Hachette Children’s Group
Headline
Hodder Education
Hodder & Stoughton
Orion Book Group
Octopus

Bookouture
Hachette Distribution
Little, Brown Book Group
John Murray Press
Quercus

Of the 12 members of the Hachette UK main board,  
4 are women and 8 are men. 
The HUK main board represent the publishing divisions and key business functions.

Of the 6 members of the Hachette UK Executive Committee, 
1 is a woman and 5 are men. 
The HUK Executive Committee represent the key operating areas of the company.

The Hachette UK Ltd median gender pay gap is 24.71%, and the median bonus gender pay gap is 62.64%
This is affected by four key things:
 
 
   
   
   
It is important to note that the pay gap is not the same as pay inequality: it is illegal in the UK to pay men and women different rates for doing the same  
or equivalent work, and Hachette UK is fully compliant with this law.

• The higher number of men in very senior roles within the company.    
• The higher proportion of women in the lower-middle and lower pay quartiles.
• The bonus pay gap is affected by the higher number of women working flexibly and part time, since their bonus pay is lower pro rata.  
• The hourly rate pay gap is affected by the exclusion from the government figures of employees who are on reduced pay  
   (eg statutory maternity pay, statutory sick pay, unpaid leave).  

These are the figures we are required to present in the government’s Gender Pay Gap Reporting. On the ‘snapshot’ date of 5 April 2017:

HOURLY RATE  
Women’s hourly rate is: 
These figures are affected by 
a higher proportion of male 
employees in very senior roles 
within the company.
 
They compare with the national gender 
pay gap of 18.4% (median) and 17.4% 
(mean) published by the Office of National 
Statistics ASHE Oct 2017.

PAY QUARTILES 
How many men and women 
are in each quartile of the 
employer’s payroll:

As required by the government report, the 
Quartiles are defined by dividing the total 
number of employees by four, to determine 
the top/upper-middle/lower-middle/lower 
quartile bands of payment. Eg the Top 
Quartile represents the salaries of the 189 
highest-paid men and women in the legal 
entity HUK Ltd, and of the 381 highest-paid 
men and women in the HUK Group. 
 

BONUS PAY  
Women’s bonus pay is: 
Unlike the hourly rate of pay, the bonus 
is based on absolute values and not 
calculated pro rata. This means that 
those on part-time contracts (89% of 
our part-time workers are women) 
receive a smaller overall bonus, which 
affects the size of our bonus pay gap. 

WHO RECEIVED  
BONUS PAY? 

These figures are affected by the high number 
of women recruited into the business in the 
reported year (70% of people recruited 
across the whole group, and 82% in 
the publishing divisions, were women). 
Those recruited after the bonus payment date 
will not have received a bonus for that year.  

29.69% lower (mean) 
24.71% lower (median)

14.18% lower (mean) 
1.32% higher (median)

FOR THE LEGAL ENTITY HUK LTD

FOR HUK GROUP

TOP

43.39% men

UPPER MIDDLE

30.16% men

LOWER MIDDLE 

21.69% 

LOWER

17.46% 

PAY 

QUARTILES

56.61% women

69.84% women

78.31% women

82.54% women

FOR THE LEGAL ENTITY HUK LTD

756 full-pay relevant employees

TOP

40.42% men

UPPER MIDDLE

26.51% 

LOWER MIDDLE 

21.52% 

LOWER

46.46% men

PAY 

QUARTILES

59.58% women

73.49% women

78.48% women

53.34% women

FOR HUK GROUP

1,524 full-pay relevant employees

79.57% lower (mean) 
62.64% lower (median)

67.11% lower (mean) 
1.65% lower (median)

FOR THE LEGAL ENTITY HUK LTD

FOR HUK GROUP

W
87.32% 
Women 

M
91.55% 
Men 

W
89.81% 
Women 

M
92.9% 
Men 

FOR THE LEGAL ENTITY HUK LTD

FOR HUK GROUP

DECLARATION 

We confirm that the information and data 
reported are accurate and in line with the UK 
government’s Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

DAVID SHELLEY 
Chief Executive Officer, Hachette UK

EXPLANATION OF GENDER PAY GAP TERMINOLOGY

What is the Gender Pay Gap?

Companies who employ 250 people or more are now required by law to publish  

their gender pay gap and their bonus gender pay gap.   

There is a difference between the gender pay gap, and equal pay for men and women,  

first brought into law in the 1970 equal pay act. 

A gender pay gap does not mean there is an equal pay problem.

Gender Pay Gap

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and women, expressed relative to 

men’s earnings. It is calculated using the hourly rate of pay for all employees employed on the “snapshot date”  

of April 5th 2017 – excluding any employees on reduced pay (eg maternity pay, sick pay, unpaid leave). 

Equal Pay

Equal pay is the right for women and men to be paid the same when doing the same  

or equivalent work. It has been an aspect of UK sex discrimination law for over 40 years,  

and the law is now incorporated into the Equality Act 2010.

The Mean gender pay gap

The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly rates of pay that male and female employees receive. 

This gives an overall indication of the gender pay gap by adding together all the hourly rates of pay for men and 
for women and dividing by the total number of male and female employees respectively. This shows the difference 

between the average earnings of men and women, expressed as a percentage relative to men’s earnings.  

The Median gender pay gap

The median gender pay gap shows the difference in the midpoints of the ranges  

of hourly rates of pay for men and women. The median is calculated by ranking all the figures  

in descending order from the highest to the lowest and taking the figure in the middle of the list.  

The median therefore avoids the potential “skewing” influence of numbers at either extreme.

Top Pay Quartile

THE MEDIAN

=

=

=

GENDER PAY GAP

EQUAL PAY

Lower Pay Quartile

+

+

+

EACH WOMAN’S HOURLY RATE ADDED TOGETHER

Total 
number of 
women 

= £ mean

+

+

+

EACH MAN’S HOURLY RATE ADDED TOGETHER

Total 
number of 
men 

= £ mean

To calculate the bonus gender pay gap, the legislation requires companies to use the actual value of the 
bonuses paid to people during the 12 months leading up to 5 April 2017. The reporting structure makes  
no allowance for the fact that people working part time will be paid (pro rata) relatively smaller bonuses.

Bonus gender pay gap

The mean gender bonus gap is the difference in average bonus pay that male and female employees receive. 

The Mean bonus gap

The Median bonus gap

The median gender bonus gap shows the difference in the midpoints of the ranges  

of bonus pay received by men and women. 

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus

This is the percentage of men and women who received bonus pay in the 12 months  

leading up to the snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile

This is the percentage of male and female employees in four quartiles, calculated by ranking employees from 

highest paid to lowest paid and dividing our workface into four equal parts, described by the government reporting 

structure as the top, upper-middle, lower-middle and lower pay quartiles.

