York St John University

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2017

CONTENTS

VICE CHANCELLOR'S MESSAGE

VICE CHANCELLOR’S MESSAGE    

INTRODUCTION 

 

OUR PERFORMANCE 
BONUS PAY
MEAN AND MEDIAN PAY
QUARTILE PAY BANDS

ANALYSIS 

TAKING ACTION   

 

 

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 

 3

4

6

9

12

14

This year marks 100 years since women in Britain 
won the right to vote. 

Since that landmark signifier of progress, so 
much has been achieved to give women the 
rights, opportunities and influence to achieve our 
potential and  start to shape a fairer, more just 
world.

Yet we know that there is still a long way to go. 

 Having been given so many opportunities 
personally to learn, grow and prosper 
professionally by Higher Education, I have seen 
the best of what our sector can be.  Yet I’m also 
fully aware of where barriers, hierarchies and bad 
practices can continue to hold us back.

As a sector that prides itself on advancing 
understanding and pioneering progressive ideas, 
we must play a leading role in championing 
equality in the workplace.  That is why I welcome 
the national publication of gender pay gap 
figures for organisations, including universities, 
across the country. It is also why we at York St 
John University have spent time understanding 
our position, analysing the detail behind it and 
identifying what more we can do to address our 
own challenges.

I am pleased that at our University there are no 
issues concerning equal pay between men and 
women for roles of equal value.  However, this 
report highlights that we do have challenges 
concerning gender segregation, with a tendency 
for women or men to be over-represented in 

certain occupations or jobs. We continue to see 
women over-represented in lower grade support 
roles and under-represented in the most senior 
academic roles.  There is more detail in the pages 
that follow.

As you will see we have already introduced some 
important initiatives to address these segregation 
issues, but I know that we can do more.  This was 
already an important issue for us and this report 
galvanises us to maintain the momentum.

I welcome feedback from colleagues about their 
experiences and ideas on how we address these 
issues.  I also hope that as a sector we will take 
this opportunity to learn from one another’s 
best practice and strengthen our common 
commitment to making this a priority. 

If we are to continue the progress of the past 100 
years, we must be open about our challenges and 
robust in our response. The publication of gender 
pay gap figures is another important step in 
helping us to do that.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                              Professor Karen Stanton 

Vice Chancellor 

2

3

INTRODUCTION

York St John University has a long and proud 
history of promoting opportunity and supporting 
gender equality.  Shortly after its founding, in 1846 
our institution welcomed women trainee teachers 
and branched out to form Ripon College for Young 
Women’s Teachers in 1862.

Today, we have a female Vice Chancellor and a 
female Chair of our Governing body. We hold 
values that promote inclusivity.  Approximately 
4,000 of our 6,000 students are female. Staff 
and students consistently tell us that they value 
the strong sense of community our campus 
and culture creates and the spirit of support we 
promote for people from every background in 
life.  We play an active and integral part in many 
initiatives that benefit our surrounding area.

So we have much to be positive about and 
build on. However, like other Higher Education 
institutions and indeed like many organisations 
we can, must and will do more to realise our 
absolute commitment to achieving greater 
equality.  An essential part of this commitment 
includes closing the gap between the average pay 
of our male and female staff. 

This 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report presents the 
headline information that organisations are now 
publishing about the comparative pay of men 
and women in their workforce, alongside further 
analysis and details of the actions we are taking, to 
present an overall picture of the current position 
at York St John University. 

Over a number of years the University has 
been conducting equal pay reviews and has 
seen a gradual decline in its mean gender pay 
gap during that time as a result of initiatives 
we have put in place.  These include: the 
introduction of Associate Professorships; 
advancing opportunities for female staff 
through management and leadership training 
opportunities; and family friendly policies.

This report highlights a number of areas where 
our performance on gender pay compares 
positively to other universities and organisations.  
However, it also highlights a particularly large 
gap in the difference between the median 
hourly rate of pay for male employees and 
female employees.  This is caused in part by the 
significant number of female casual staff working 
as ‘Student Ambassadors’, which compounds the 
fact that female colleagues are disproportionately 
over-represented in lower paid roles within the 
University.

It is important for us to understand the data 
behind the headline figures and be clear about 
the actions that can make the greatest difference.  
This report identifies where improvements will 
be targeted and is a key moment in helping us to 
create a more equal workforce for the future.

4

5

OUR PERFORMANCE

Regulations introduced as part of the Equality Act 2010 (section 147) require that organisations report 
and publish specific information on an annual basis relating to: any gender gaps in bonus pay; the 
median gender pay gap and mean gender pay gap; and quartile pay bands.  That information for York  
St John University as at 31st March 2017, is presented over the following pages:

BONUS PAY:

MEAN AND MEDIAN PAY:

MEAN BONUS GAP 0%  
MEDIAN BONUS GAP 0% 
BONUS PROPORTIONS 0% 

6

7

Excluding casual staff (predominantly our student workforce) this figure is 18.6%.

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay employees and that of female full-pay 
employees (our mean gender pay gap) is 18.4%.

Excluding casual staff (predominantly our student workforce) this figure is 11.1%.

18.4%
37.4%

The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male full-pay employees and that of female full-pay 
employees (our median gender pay gap) is 37.4%.

QUARTILE PAY BANDS:

UPPER QUARTILE

41%

UPPER MIDDLE

QUARTILE

59%

LOWER MIDDLE

QUARTILE

LOWER QUARTILE

ANALYSIS:

WHO ARE OUR WORKFORCE?

64%

In total 968 staff were included in the data on which our 
gender pay gap figures in 2017 were calculated.  Of this 
number 

64% of our workforce is female.

CASUAL STAFF:

The total number of staff detailed above, includes 
a casual workforce of 198 Student Ambassadors, 
of which 76% (151) were female.  This group 
supported the University during Open Days 
which took place in the spring and were paid in 
March for doing so.  

 We see this as a valuable activity to give students 
work experience. This casual workforce has 
significantly affected the gender pay gap being 
reported for our University, which is why we have 
also included the figure excluding our casual 
workforce in the report.

THE SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF FEMALE STUDENT 
AMBASSADORS IS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE NUMBER 
OF WOMEN IN THE LOWER QUARTILE OF OUR PAY BANDS.

8

9

ANALYSIS CONTINUED…

THE PROPORTIONAL PAY GAP:
Given the significantly greater number of women in our workforce, it is helpful, alongside the mandatory 
reporting figures, to also explore the proportional pay gap.  The proportional pay gap compares the hourly rate 
of men and women on a like-by-like basis across every grade. The percentage difference demonstrates for each 
grade how women are affected. A negative figure means that on average across the grade, women are paid more 
than men. 
ANALYSIS SHOWS THAT AT 0.4%, THERE IS NO SIGNIFICANT 
PROPORTIONAL PAY GAP BETWEEN OUR MALE AND FEMALE 
STAFF.

ACADEMIC STAFF:
In the most recent round of promotions we saw more female than male staff applying for Professorial titles.  
Within our sector the pay gap for Academics is 11.4% in favour of men, however at York St John University:
AMONGST ACADEMIC STAFF WE SEE A SLIGHTLY POSITIVE 
PAY GAP IN FAVOUR OF FEMALE ACADEMICS.

OCCUPATIONAL SEGREGATION:
As outlined earlier in this report, the key factor behind the size of the gender pay gap at our University is 
occupational segregation. This is a theme we see repeated at many universities.  
FEMALES OUTNUMBER MALE STAFF IN BOTH LOWER PAID 
ROLES AND IN PART-TIME POSITIONS. 

10

11

TAKING ACTION

Our gender pay figures highlight the importance of addressing occupational segregation in our 
workplace.  A number of existing and forthcoming initiatives support this, helping us to create a fairer 
workplace and support female colleagues to succeed at every level of our University. 

CREATING A FAIRER, THRIVING WORKPLACE FOR EVERYONE

 
We plan to review where our University 
currently has occupational segregation 
through a job family review and focus on how 
to develop roles of equal appeal for men and 
women.

 
We will review our lower pay rates and grade 
boundaries to identify whether salaries and 
progression can be improved and look at how 
we can reduce our reliance on lower paid 
administrative roles and create higher graded 
more professional positions.

 
We will ensure equitable, fair and transparent 
policies and processes that support career 
development including the introduction of a 
Talent Management Framework.

 
We will continue to promote our Family 
friendly policies, including our Shared 
Parental Leave Policy . We are also working 
towards adopting City of York Council's Carers 
Charter.

Find out more: www.yorksj.ac.uk/human-resources/leave--work-life-balance/

SUPPORTING WOMEN TO SUCCEED

York St John University has introduced a number of initiatives that are helping female colleagues to 
develop their careers.  We will continue to build on these as part of an Action Plan to address the gender 
pay gap issues identified in this report and as part of our wider commitment to enhancing equality in 
the workplace.  These include:

 Improving career development opportunities for female Academics, including the introduction of 
Associate Professorships.

 Introducing faster progression routes from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, with plans to promote this 
more actively to female Academics.

 Funding female Academics on the Leadership Foundation Aurora programme.

 Offering Action Learning sets for women as part of the Northern Universities consortium.

 Introducing the Chartered Management Institute (CMI) Leadership and Management Training 
for our staff.  58% of participants at Level 2 and 78% at Level 5 are female.

Positively promoting the University to increase female applicants to senior roles.

 Supporting flexible working, including flexible return to work options following maternity leave.  
Over the past two years 98.5% of flexible working requests were approved, including 97% of 
requests from women returning to work. 

We have introduced unconscious bias training for Recruiters and we are working to ensure our 
recruitment practices use gender neutral language.

12

13

LOOKING

TO  
THE 

FUTURE

We will work with our Trade 
Unions to develop and monitor a 
comprehensive response to our 
gender pay gap.

Staff are invited to contact HR at 
humanresources@yorksj.ac.uk to 
join the discussion on what new 
activity we could be doing to help 
reduce our gender pay gap.

14

16

Lord Mayor's Walk, York, YO31 7EX

