GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Introduction

Lovewell Blake is one of the leading accountants, business advisers and 
financial planners, operating in its region. 

Our culture and ethos at Lovewell Blake is ‘different because you are’. 
We believe that our people are our most valuable asset and recognise 
that each of our employees is different. We are committed to providing 
our employees with tailored, valuable training and support to ensure 
they reach their own individual potential, through both industry related 
qualifications and internal continuous professional development courses.

We have built up an industry leading reputation for our apprenticeship 
and graduate schemes, which is evidenced by our accredited employer 
status with AAT and ACCA and Platinum status with the ICAEW. We have 
recently been named as one of the top 100 UK employers for 
school/college leavers and recruit up to 20 trainees/apprentices on an 
annual basis, which form approximately a third of our overall workforce.

This report relates to the data for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017 
and the figures included have been calculated using the standard 
methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017. In line with this legislation we are 
required to publish an annual gender pay gap report and provide the 
following statistics:

• mean gender pay gap 
• median gender pay gap 
• mean bonus gender pay gap
• median bonus gender pay gap 
• proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 
• proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

Accountants | Business Advisers | Financial Planners

1

Our gender pay and bonus gap

We are pleased to report that the gender balance across our workforce 
is 66% female and 34% male, and 24% of our workforce have chosen to 
make use of our flexible working policy and work on a part-time 
arrangement. 

Gender pay gap

Mean

Median

25.6%

24.8%

We are committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees and believe that the gender pay 
legislation has assisted our firm in understanding the causes of our 
gender pay gap statistics and the barriers to overcome in order to 
reduce these. 

We are confident that our mean and median gender pay gap 
statistics do not arise from paying our female and male employees 
differently for the same or equivalent work. 

When we undertook a comparison of the data, based on our grading 
structure and the number of male versus female employees within 
these roles, we identified that our gender pay gap reduced dramatically 
and is in fact caused by our gender balance and structure of our 
workforce. 

We have 63% male and 37% female employees within our higher paid 
senior positions, in comparison to 35% male and 65% female 
employees within the lower grades. 

Our current structure reflects the UK economy as a whole, where it is 
more likely for men to be in senior positions and for administrative 
support positions to be predominantly undertaken by women.

Our pay framework is made up of salary bandings (including a structure 
for our administrative support employees and those in chargeable roles 
that range from trainee to manager grade). The bandings vary 
according to the level of responsibility, skills and competencies 
required, and staff are expected to move through the pay band 
according to their grade. Salary increases are based on performance in 
line with our competency framework, level of responsibility, study 
progression and professional development. 

Accountants | Business Advisers | Financial Planners

2

The proportion of men within our firm who received a bonus in the 12 
months up to 5 April 2017 was 11.1% and for women this was 6.4%. 
Whilst this gender gap figure seems large when viewed in terms of 
percentage figures, only 8% of our employees actually received a 
bonus during this period and of those there were more women (10 
employees) than men (9 employees). This also reflects the gender 
balance of our workforce firm-wide.  

Gender bonus pay gap (year ending 5 April 2017) for our 
recruitment and client referral schemes

Mean

Median

52.9%

23.8%

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus (year ending 5 
April 2017) for our recruitment and client referral schemes

Female

6.4%

Male

11.1%

We do not currently have a bonus scheme in place or have an 
existing policy of paying large bonuses to individual members of 
staff. Therefore, the definition of ‘bonus’ in this report are the 
payments made to individuals in line with our recruitment and 
client referral schemes, which are entirely voluntary gender-
balanced schemes open to all employees within the firm. 

Accountants | Business Advisers | Financial Planners

3

Proportion of males and females in each 
pay quartile

The pattern from the UK economy as a whole (along with other 
employers in our sector) is reflected in the structure of our workforce, 
where the majority of our employees in support/administrative roles 
and those in the first salary quartile are female, in comparison to 
those in senior positions and in the upper salary quartile where they 
are predominantly male. 

The charts illustrate the four equal sized pay quartiles (based on 
hourly rates) across our workforce by gender. In order for there to be 
no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to 
women in each band. However, 76.8% of the employees in the lower 
quartile are women and 23.2% are male. 

The percentage ratio of male and female employees remains relatively 
similar across the next two pay quartiles. However, the difference 
between the ratio decreases in the upper quartile, where there are 
58.9% male and 41.1% female employees.  

Accountants | Business Advisers | Financial Planners

4

How will we achieve improved gender 
balance?

We are aiming to create a more balanced representation of male and 
female employees at all grades across our firm. We will promote good 
gender balance, equality and diversity, including career development 
opportunities and support for those individuals with parental duties.

Our employees describe Lovewell Blake as rewarding, friendly, diverse 
and motivating, and in order to be part of the team we require a ‘can-
do’ attitude. 

We appreciate that it will take a considerable amount of time for our 
initiatives to have an impact on the gender representation, balance and 
equality that we wish to achieve within all grades of the firm, 
particularly with the current structure of our senior roles, and that 
these will need to be continuously reviewed and improved. However, 
we are confident that with the ‘can-do’ attitude and collaborative 
working of our employees, we will continue to progress towards the 
firm’s aim, and for our gender pay gap statistics to replicate this and 
will report the progress that we have made on an annual basis. 

I confirm that the information provided in this report is accurate and is in 
line with the requirements of the regulations.  

Colin Fish 
Managing Partner 
For Lovewell Blake LLP 
3 April 2018

Accountants | Business Advisers | Financial Planners

5

