GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER

Introduction 

Gender pay analysis 

In line with the Equality Act (Gender pay gap information) 
Regulations 2017, DNV GL are required, by the 5th of April 
2018, to publish an annual gender pay gap report based 
on any of our legal entities with over 250 employees. This 
applies, in the UK, only to GL Industrial Services UK Ltd 
(GLIS).  DNV GL has decided to go one step further by 
sharing the results for the whole of its UK organisation.  

The figures for GLIS and DNV GL have been calculated 
using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 
(Gender pay gap information) Regulations 2017. 

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd

DNV GL

23

mean

27

median

26

mean

24

median

NOTE: Headcount numbers as at 5th April 2017 were 349 GLIS and 1,173 DNV GL 
Filtering for ‘Full Pay Relevant Employees’, led to samples of 313 GLIS and 1,019 DNV GL

Being a largely engineering based organisation, DNV GL 
operate within the Science, Technology, Engineering and 
Mathematics (STEM) areas.  In this regard, GLIS and DNV 
GL report a 29.7% and 27.6% total female representation 
respectively.  These figures compare favourably with the 
wider reported representation of women across the UK 
engineering workforce in 2017 (11%(1)). At DNV GL UK many 
of our female workforce are employed within the support 
to middle management recognised grades (‘lower’ and 
‘lower middle’ pay quartiles reported below), while the large 
majority of upper quartile, and therefore senior management 
roles, are predominantly held by males.  This disparity in 
proportion sizes between males and females across the pay 
quartiles is a significant factor in why a pay gap exists within 
DNV GL.

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd Gender pay gap report 2017 
GL Industrial Services UK Ltd
Registered in England & Wales No. 32941136. Registered Office: Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3GR, UK

[1] WES (2018) ‘Statistics on Women in Engineering’ [online]. 
Source available at: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics

DNV GL - Proportions across pay quartiles

Total

Upper

Upper 
Middle

 Lower 
Middle

 Lower

72.4%

87.8%

78.0%

67.8%

55.9%

27.6%

12.2%

22.0%

32.2%

44.1%

Male

Female

DNV GL believes that the gender pay gap seen within 
DNV GL does not equate to an equal pay issue, but rather 
the result of the roles in which men and women appear to 
predominantly work within the organisation, and the salaries 
that these roles attract.  We report annually at Group level 
on equal pay for the UK region as well as other geographies 
which indicates that no equal pay concerns exist.  
In order to remove a gender pay gap completely, there 
would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each 
of the pay band quartiles identified. The current position, 
within DNV GL, shows a significant decrease in female 
representation between lowest and highest quartiles. DNV 
GL recognise that there is a challenge here. 

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd Gender pay gap report 2017 
GL Industrial Services UK Ltd
Registered in England & Wales No. 32941136. Registered Office: Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3GR, UK

[1] WES (2018) ‘Statistics on Women in Engineering’ [online]. 
Source available at: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics

Bonus pay gap

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd

DNV GL

88mean

17median

17mean

19

median

2% males receiving bonus

17% males receiving bonus

9% females receiving bonus

5% females receiving bonus
NOTE: The period covered was the 12 months leading up to 5th April 2017
There are relatively low samples across both GLIS and DNV GL.  The 
sample size for GLIS was only 11 employees (5 males, 6 females) and 
for DNV GL, 178 employees (147 males, 31 females).  The sample 
sizes were therefore heavily impacted through the bonus schemes in 
operation across the Company.  With the GLIS mean result, this figure 
is heavily distorted through a small number of individuals receiving 
significantly larger payments than all others within the small sample 
overall.
For the large majority of employees who fell into grades 4 to 9 in 
this period (and therefore in the DNV GL Profit Share arrangement), 
payments for this scheme were not applicable in the period covered.  
This, in turn, would have impacted on those grades which realistically 
house the large majority of our female population within both GLIS 
and DNV GL, based on the proportionate numbers across the differing 
pay quartiles.

[1] WES (2018) ‘Statistics on Women in Engineering’ [online]. 
Source available at: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd Gender pay gap report 2017 GL Industrial Services UK LtdRegistered in England & Wales No. 32941136. Registered Office: Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3GR, UKAddressing the gender pay gap

DNV GL is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and 
equal treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion 
or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. We have a clear 
policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, 
regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above) and 
we:
• provide a clear structure and guidance to managers and other staff
members involved in pay reviews to ensure objectivity and fairness;

• evaluate job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair

structure

• advertise management positions

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd Gender pay gap report 2017 
GL Industrial Services UK Ltd
Registered in England & Wales No. 32941136. Registered Office: Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3GR, UK

On a local level across the UK, we have several DNV GL ambassadors 
who have, and are, pro-actively completing a variety of activities aimed 
at the STEM industry issues and women entering engineering.  With 
our desire to continue to increase female representation across our 
organisation and in general to ensure an ongoing diverse workforce, 
we want to continue to support and encourage our staff in further 
activities of this nature moving forward.  Some stand out activities DNV 
GL ambassadors have completed so far have included: 
• Active participation in support of taking on students through the

‘Year in Industry’ scheme alongside the Engineering Development
Trust (EDT)

• SmartSTEM – event specifically for approx. 40 female students at a

University involving an engineering related practical activity and talk
from members of our Engineering staff

• Support with local schools and colleges at events including
career fairs and career talks.  This includes supplying career packs,
requirements to different technical roles within DNV GL, and
employee case studies

• Supporting the ‘Gold Crest awards’, whereby students undertake a
placement then write reports and create presentation posters; the
Gold Crest award is then issued and this enhances a student’s CV/
personal statement for ongoing university or job applications

Whilst some of the above are not specific in targeting female 
representation solely, we believe that the approaches taken have 
opened the communication channels with students and  children 
broadly across multiple regions, which reaches out to both males and 
females in encouraging pathways into the STEM related industries. 

[1] WES (2018) ‘Statistics on Women in Engineering’ [online]. Source available at: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatisticsNext steps - Immediate priorities

Our first step is to extend our evidence-gathering to break down the 
results for each of our Business areas and better understand if the 
same or other patterns are seen across our specific disciplines.  Further 
steps will be taken to broaden the knowledge of any gaps across 
career ‘tracks’ and/or grades in line with our career model.  We believe 
that these steps will give us the best platform to identify key common 
focus areas for action. 
We also recognise that in the last three years there has been a 
downturn in many of the markets in which we operate.  This has led to 
restrictions on our ability to recruit externally in those very sectors.  Our 
hope is, that as we see conditions in these markets improve, we will be 
able to recruit significantly and with this, work towards addressing our 
gender pay gap where this is appropriate.
We do acknowledge that it could take several years before we can 
make significant in-roads on the overall pay gap figures seen, but 
nevertheless we will continue working on multiple actions in a variety 
of areas to work to reduce this gap.
We will continue to report our results and the progress we are making 
both internally and externally on an annual basis, with any further 
initiatives launched in respect of tackling the gender pay gap also 
reported internally throughout each year.
I, Pradeep Vamadevan, UK Country Chair, confirm that the information 
in this statement is accurate. 
Signed

Date

28/03/2018

GL Industrial Services UK Ltd Gender pay gap report 2017 
GL Industrial Services UK Ltd
Registered in England & Wales No. 32941136. Registered Office: Holywell Park, Ashby Road, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE11 3GR, UK

[1] WES (2018) ‘Statistics on Women in Engineering’ [online]. 
Source available at: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics

