 
 

 

The Castle Partnership Trust Gender Pay Gap Report 

31 March 2017 

This report is produced by The Castle Partnership Trust in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

Difference in mean and median hourly rate of pay 

 

Difference in the mean hourly 
pay 

Difference in the median hourly 
pay 

Pay gap. % difference male to 
female 

17.22% 

36.56% 

 

Difference in mean and median bonus pay 

 

Difference in the mean bonus 
pay 

Difference in the median bonus 
pay 

Pay gap. % difference male to 
female 

0% 

 

0% 

Proportion of male and female employees who were paid bonus pay 

 

Proportion receiving a bonus 

Male employees (% paid a bonus compared to all 
male employees) 

Female employees (% paid a bonus compared to all 
female employees) 

0% 

0% 

 

Proportion of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands 

 

Male (% males to all 
employees in each quartile) 

Female (% females to all 
employees in each quartile) 

Quartile 1. 
Lower 

Quartile 2. 
Lower 
middle 

Quartile 3. 
Upper 
middle 

Quartile 4. 
Upper 

Total 

29.03% 

24.59% 

27.87% 

51.61% 

33.33% 

70.97% 

75.41% 

72.13% 

48.39% 

66.67% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Supporting Statement 

The Castle Partnership Trust has a Policy of Equal Opportunities and promotes the fair and equitable 
recruitment and treatment of staff based on merit, irrespective of race, colour, nationality, religion, sex or 
sexuality, age, disability, gender, ethnic or national origin, marital status, domestic responsibilities, political or 
trade union activity.  This is reinforced through the Trust’s Recruitment and Vetting, Pay, and Appraisal 
Policies amongst others. 

Pay scales for teaching staff are aligned to the School Teachers Pay and Conditions document which provides 
the framework for teachers’ pay in England and Wales. For Support Staff, we use national pay scales agreed 
with the National Joint Council for Local Government Services.  

The Gender Pay Gap Report provides an overview of the total staffing levels within the Trust. Despite the 
majority of Leadership positions in The Trust being held by female employees, a high percentage of 
applications, and therefore appointments, for the early grade positions (including catering assistants, cleaners 
and teaching assistants) are from female applicants. Consequently, the gap between the ‘average’ female 
hourly rate of pay and the ‘average’ male hourly rate of pay is significantly affected. 

The overall pay gap is a reflection of the composition of the workforce rather than a gender pay inequality. 

 

 
 

I confirm that the information published here is accurate. 

Signature: 

Position: 
 

 

 

Date: 

20/03/2018 

Executive Headteacher 
 

