                       25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  FREE STANDARD DELIVERY ON ORDERS OVER £150          header.skiptocontent                      United Kingdom / English  United Kingdom    GBP    Stores    Help       Log In      My Wishlist       My Bag  0           New In        All New In             KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Clothing                KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Footwear & Accessories             KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION                   New In  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION          Close       Shop        Clothing      All Clothing           ALL CLOTHING  Shop now               MOST WANTED  Shop bestsellers            Dresses           DRESSES  Shop now               OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now            Tops           TOPS  Shop now               THE ESSENTIALS  SHOP NOW            Shirts & Blouses           SHIRTS & BLOUSES  Shop now               BACK TO BUSINESS  SHOP WORKWEAR            T-Shirts           T-SHIRTS  Shop now               THE FINE PRINT  Shop prints            Jumpsuits & Playsuits           JUMPSUITS & PLAYSUITS  Shop now               THE HOLIDAY SHOP  Shop now            Trousers           TROUSERS  Shop now               COLOUR  Shop now            Coats & Jackets           COATS & JACKETS  Shop now               THE COVER-UP  SHOP JACKETS            Knitwear           KNITWEAR  Shop now               KNIT DRESSES  Shop now            Skirts           SKIRTS  Shop now               THE BIG DAY  SHOP WEDDDING            Jeans           JEANS  Shop now               OFF DUTY  SHOP NOW                   ALL CLOTHING  Shop now               MOST WANTED  Shop bestsellers            Footwear      All Footwear           ALL FOOTWEAR  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Shoes           SHOES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Sandals           SANDALS  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Boots           Boots  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Flats           FLATS  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now                   ALL FOOTWEAR  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Accessories      All Accessories           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Bags           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Purses           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Phone Cases           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Fascinators           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Hats           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Jewellery           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Watches           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Belts           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Sunglasses           ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now                   ALL ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now            Occasionwear      All Occasionwear           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Occasion Dresses           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Occasion Bags           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Occasion Shoes           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Race Day Outfits           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Karen Millen x Royal Ascot           OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION                   OCCASIONWEAR  Shop now               KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION            Wedding      Wedding Guest           WEDDING GUEST  Shop now               THE PERFECT PAIR  Shop shoes            Mother of the Bride           WEDDING GUEST  Shop now               THE PERFECT PAIR  Shop shoes            Bridesmaid           WEDDING GUEST  Shop now               THE PERFECT PAIR  Shop shoes            Wedding Shoes           WEDDING GUEST  Shop now               THE PERFECT PAIR  Shop shoes                   WEDDING GUEST  Shop now               THE PERFECT PAIR  Shop shoes            Edits      SS18 Collection           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Most Wanted           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Online Exclusive           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Holiday Shop           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Workwear           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Off Duty           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            The Essentials           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Prints           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            Colour           KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now                   KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  SHOP THE COLLECTION               Online exclusives  Shop now            25% off Shoes & Bags      All Shoes, Bags & Accessories           NEW IN SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now                   NEW IN SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now               25% OFF ALL SHOES & ACCESSORIES  Shop now             Shop A    Shop B     Close       Inspiration        the karen millen blog            #MYKM            ROYAL ASCOT            BE MORE KAREN            SS18 COLLECTION            THE WEDDING SHOP            The Story of our Atelier                   KAREN MILLEN X ROYAL ASCOT  Discover More               BE MORE KAREN  Discover More          Close       Sale        Clothing      Dresses            ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Tops           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Knitwear           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Skirts           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Coats & Jackets           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Jeans & Trousers           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now                    ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Dresses           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Accessories           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            Footwear           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            New to Sale           ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now            All Sale                    ALL SALE  Shop now               NEW LINES  Shop now          Close       Help    My Wishlist    Log In    Stores       Search Catalog  Search   Go                 Your browser's Javascript functionality is turned off. Improve your shopping expereince by switching it on.         Home    About Us           About Us  Find out more about us, our collections & the presence Karen Millen has throughout the UK, Europe, US, Asia and Australia.     ABOUT US  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  CODE OF CONDUCT  ANIMAL WELFARE  MODERN SLAVERY ACT  TAX STRATEGY  JOIN THE KM AFFILIATE NETWORK  PRESS CONTACT  GENDER PAY GAP REPORT     Born and bred in England, Karen Millen is known globally for creating beautifully crafted fashion for confident women who know their own style.  Each piece of their collection has been individually designed, hand-crafted and perfected by the designers in their in-house atelier to deliver their signature quality and attention to detail. From couture-inspired techniques to luxurious heritage fabrics, every KM garment has a story to tell.  The range is a curated collection of perfectly cut trend-led and investment pieces offering an elevated, tailored approach to fashion. Truly international, Karen Millen has stores in over 65 countries across six continents including flagship stores in London’s Regent Street and New York’s Fifth Avenue.    We believe that those who work in our global supply chain should be provided with the rights and protection of international labour standards, as set out in our Code of Conduct. The Code covers a number of provisions, including no child labour, safe working conditions, a living wage, no excessive hours and protection of the environment. The Code forms part of our overall Ethical Trading strategy which also includes monitoring and auditing of the supply base.  Our approach to Ethical Trading is to work in partnership with our suppliers based on transparency, co-operation and continuous improvement. We recognise that suppliers may sometimes face complex challenges in upholding our code standards. Where this is the case, we assist them in making ongoing improvements and regularly follow up with them to ensure satisfactory progress is achieved. We firmly believe that this is in the best interests of the workforce, as it is important that their livelihoods are protected.  We continue to work with the Aurora Ethical Trading team located in London and China who work closely with our team and our suppliers to progress our strategy and ensure this remains effective.    Our corporate responsibility strategy is developing and continuously being reviewed as our business grows. Our strategy represents on going work to integrate ethical trade, environmental sustainability and community enhancement into everything that we do.  We have created a Karen Millen code of conduct which is built on the foundation principles of the Ethical Trade Initiative’s base code.  Please see our full statement here    We aim to promote the safe and humane treatment of animals used in the production of our products by requiring all of our suppliers adhere to our Animal Testing and Animal Welfare Policy which provides that:   Leather should be sourced in a sustained responsible manner.  Leathers & skins must only be obtained as a by-product and not for the sole purpose of the slaughter of an animal  No products in full or part are to be sourced from endangered species from the CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species) or IUCN  No real fur or pelts are to be used in any Karen Millen products  Animals should not be harmed either during farming methods or by the collection of their wool, & hair  Angora rabbit hair should not be used for any Karen Millen products  Merino wool cannot be used or purchased from sources that still practice’s mulesing. Suppliers will be asked to provide the wool source to ensure they meet our requirements and ensure safe and good sheep husbandry methods  Karen Millen does not accept any Leather/skin products obtained from live skinning or live boiling of animals  Karen Millen will only use shell products originating from non-endangered species  Karen Millen will not include ingredients, formulations or products from suppliers that have been party to animal testing for cosmetic purposes  Karen Millen suppliers are required to give full assurance and commitment that the Animal Testing and Animal Welfare Policy is strictly adhered to.    We are committed to working transparently, ethically and sustainably to support the people within our supply chain who make the products that our customers love and the environment and resources that surround them.  We recognise our potential to impact social and economic development in the territories that we work in. We have taken the opportunity to visit many of our suppliers and educate ourselves about the specific challenges that their environments present so that we can adapt our internal strategies and in turn support them to become better businesses offering more secure, sustainable jobs.  We are focussed on developing collaborative relationships with our suppliers and also with charitable organisations and initiatives that support and enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy.  Responsible business practices and social awareness are virtues which we strive to honour in all of our operations and a central part of this is our continued efforts to ensure responsible supply chains.  We have a number of policies aimed at ensuring we conduct our business in an ethical and transparent manner. We update these regularly to ensure they remain relevant and we have done so recently to ensure they specifically refer to our intolerance of forced labour and our requirement for suppliers to implement appropriate controls to prevent modern slavery and notify Karen Millen immediately if they become aware of any modern slavery within their supply chains.  Please see our full statement here     In compliance with section 16(1) and Schedule 19 of the Finance Act 2016, Karen Millen is publishing its tax strategy for the year ending 24 February, 2018.  The principal activity of the Group is the selling of beautifully crafted women’s clothing, footwear and accessories.  This document, approved by the Board of Directors, sets out Karen Millen’s approach to conducting its tax affairs and dealing with tax risks, both in the UK and overseas. This strategy document will be reviewed annually and updated as appropriate  Karen Millen Group is committed to:   Following all applicable laws and regulations relating to its global tax activities.  Maintaining an open and honest relationship with all tax authorities based on collaboration and integrity.  Applying diligence and care in our management of the processes and procedures by which all tax related activities are undertaken, and ensuring that our tax governance is appropriate.   Risk management and governance arrangements  Karen Millen’s aim is for our global tax affairs to be transparent and compliant with tax legislation. We have a tax control framework in place to manage our tax risks and the controls are monitored frequently to ensure they are operating effectively. In addition, our internal structures are set up to ensure:   The Board of Directors understand the importance of tax compliance, and how it is achieved.  The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for establishing the overall tax governance with the Chief Financial Officer having key oversight and responsibility for monitoring the day to day operation of tax, supported by Finance and Tax Teams, as well as professional advisers.  The Board will have oversight to ensure tax planning and compliance is given appropriate attention.  Where there is uncertainty as to how relevant tax law should be interpreted, or applied, Karen Millen will seek external expert advice.   The processes by which we meet our tax obligations are kept under regular review, and include engaging with external tax advisers when required and investing in training for our staff.  Attitude of Karen Millen towards tax planning  Karen Millen aims to support the commercial needs of the business by ensuring that its affairs are carried out in a tax efficient manner, whilst remaining compliant with all relevant tax laws. The tax function is, therefore, involved in commercial decision making processes and provides appropriate input into business proposals to ensure a clear understanding of the tax consequences of any decisions made. Karen Millen does not undertake any aggressive tax planning activity, the sole or main purpose for which would be obtaining a tax advantage.  In cases where the tax guidance is unclear, or Karen Millen does not feel it has the necessary “in-house” expert knowledge to assess the tax consequences adequately, there is an established policy of seeking external advice.  Karen Millen will utilise available tax reliefs and incentives, where applicable, in a manner which is consistent with Governments’ tax policy objectives in both the UK and those overseas jurisdictions where we also have a tax presence.  Attitude towards tax risk  Karen Millen sees compliance with tax legislation as key to managing our tax risk.  We understand the importance of tax in the wider context of business decisions and have processes in place to ensure tax is considered as part of our decision making process. We have a low tolerance towards tax risk and proactively engage with professional tax advisers that allow us to achieve certainty in our global tax positions.  Given the prominence of our brand in the High Street, the Board is fully aware of the negative impact that an aggressive attitude towards tax would have on both our customers and reputation. Consequently, our approach is to ensure that we are compliant and understand our tax responsibilities and the Board considers that strong internal processes and good relationships with our professional advisers are the best way to manage this potential reputational risk.  Approach towards dealing with Tax Authorities  Karen Millen is committed to the principles of openness and transparency in its approach to its dealings with the tax authorities we engage with around the world. All dealings with these tax authorities and other relevant bodies are conducted in a collaborative, courteous and timely manner. Specifically, Karen Millen commits to:   Making fair, accurate and timely disclosures in correspondence and returns, and responding to queries and information requests in a timely fashion.  Seeking to resolve issues with Tax Authorities in a timely manner and, where disagreements arise, work to resolve those issues by agreement wherever possible.  Be open and transparent about decision-making, governance and tax compliance.  Interpret relevant tax laws in accordance with generally accepted customs and practice.  Ensure all interactions with Tax Authorities are conducted in an open, collaborative and professional manner; and specifically in respect of our UK tax activities.  Engaging with HMRC, principally through our CRM relationship, in all significant tax matters.     Glamorous, distinctive clothing and accessories for the confident, uncompromising woman of today. We are known worldwide for our perfectly cut pieces, from on trend leather jackets to investment coats and occasion wear. With online & store presence across the UK, America, Europe, Asia & Australia, we're truly a global brand. We're now looking for true fashionistas to join our affiliate network, so whether you're an up and coming fashion blogger or have your own site dedicated to style, we'd love to have you as a member of our network!  The benefits of our network:   Free to join network, with access to our latest content updates & image archive  commission on sales, excluding delivery & returned products  30 day cookie window, allowing you to receive commission for sales made within this time from your site  Real time tracking & reporting options   What do I need to do as an affiliate?   Simply place our beautifully presented ads on your site or blog  Access our brand page for updates about our latest trends, best selling products & fashion edits   How do I become a Karen Millen affiliate?   For any other queries please contact affiliates@karenmillen.co.uk  Once you've been approved, you can choose from a variety of our creative banners and text links we've provided within the network  Post our creative banners on your site that will best attract your customers to click through and purchase  You'll then receive 5% commission on customer purchases, excluding delivery & returned products     For Press information please contact:  United Kingdom  Head of Global PR  Francesca Johnson 69-77 Paul Street London EC2A 4PN  E: f.johnson@karenmillen.co.uk   PR Coordinator  Hatty Bell 69-77 Paul Street London EC2A 4PN  E: h.bell@karenmillen.co.uk   United States  PR & Marketing Coordinator  Ryan Rodriguez Karen Millen 587 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10017  T: +1(212)202-3180 ext 5476  E: r.rodriguez@karenmillen.co.uk   Australia  Publicity & Marketing Manager  Silvia Tasinato 19 Newton Street Richmond, VIC Australia 3121  T: +613 9421 2688 EXT 203  E: silvia@karenmillen.com.au          As a brand, Karen Millen helps women all over the world feel confident and empowered through our beautifully designed clothes. As an employer, we’re committed to encouraging women and men to fulfil their career aspirations through our supportive culture and fair pay practices.    Our gender pay gap of 49% (on a median basis) and 50% (mean) paints a misleading picture about our commitment to gender diversity and equality at Karen Millen.  Our pay gap is highly influenced by the salaries and gender make-up of the stylists who work in our stores. As a fashion brand dedicated to women, where we outsource our distribution centres, we tend to attract more female employees than men. The result of which is that women represent 94% of our workforce.  The majority make up our large team of passionate and committed stylists, serving our customers in stores up and down the country.  Our small percentage of male employees work mostly in head office roles, which – traditionally and in keeping with most retailers – tend to be higher paid.
Excluding head office roles, our gender pay gap drops to 6%.  The following numbers provide more detail about the makeup of our workforce and evidence our commitment to championing all our colleagues, regardless of gender.  Facts:    759 (number of Full Pay relevant remployees)    94% women  6% men    80% of our Leadership Team are women versus 23% UK Average   The mean is the average of the combined numbers in a data set The median is the middle number that splits the top 50% from the bottom 50%    Mean Pay Gap - Total  Median Pay Gap - Total    50%  49%    Mean Bonus Pay  Median Bonus Pay    -30%  96%    We have a larger proportion of females working in retail being paid retail bonuses, the majority of which are lower value amounts when compared to head office roles. This brings down the females mean bonus value. 58 females received a bonus and 4 males which as a proportion is equal to 8% for both genders, demonstrating our fair distribution across males and females.  Proportion of men and women across UK business in each quartile (Quartile 1 being the lowest pay rates, Quartile 4 being the highest):     Quartiles - Total  Male  Female     Q1 (lowest paid)  2%  98%    Q2  3%  97%    Q3  5%  95%    Q4 (highest paid)  16%  84%    If we were to look just at our retail teams our results would read as follows:     Retail Mean Pay Gap  Retail Median Pay Gap     6%  7%    Proportion of men and women in each quartile (Quartile 1 being the lowest pay rates, Quartile 4 being the highest)     Quartiles - Total  Proportion of males in this quartile  Proportion of females in this quartile     Q1 (lowest paid)  2%  98%    Q2  0%  100%    Q3  4%  96%    Q4 (highest paid)  5%  95%    We’re proud to be a business with a female CEO and CFO, and a leadership team which is 80% female. However, we recognise we can do more to champion diversity at all levels of our business and ensure everyone can build and sustain a successful and rewarding career.  We’re re-engineering our recruitment strategy, to ensure we can attract a wide range of potential employees underpinned in the knowledge that Karen Millen is a great place to work for everyone, regardless of age, gender or ethnicity. We look forward to creating a more diverse workforce and helping to build a solid pipeline of future leaders in retail.  Beth Butterwick         About Us  Find out more about us, our collections & the presence Karen Millen has throughout the UK, Europe, US, Asia and Australia.     ABOUT US    Born and bred in England, Karen Millen is known globally for creating beautifully crafted fashion for confident women who know their own style.  Each piece of their collection has been individually designed, hand-crafted and perfected by the designers in their in-house atelier to deliver their signature quality and attention to detail. From couture-inspired techniques to luxurious heritage fabrics, every KM garment has a story to tell.  The range is a curated collection of perfectly cut trend-led and investment pieces offering an elevated, tailored approach to fashion. Truly international, Karen Millen has stores in over 65 countries across six continents including flagship stores in London’s Regent Street and New York’s Fifth Avenue.      CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY    We believe that those who work in our global supply chain should be provided with the rights and protection of international labour standards, as set out in our Code of Conduct. The Code covers a number of provisions, including no child labour, safe working conditions, a living wage, no excessive hours and protection of the environment. The Code forms part of our overall Ethical Trading strategy which also includes monitoring and auditing of the supply base.  Our approach to Ethical Trading is to work in partnership with our suppliers based on transparency, co-operation and continuous improvement. We recognise that suppliers may sometimes face complex challenges in upholding our code standards. Where this is the case, we assist them in making ongoing improvements and regularly follow up with them to ensure satisfactory progress is achieved. We firmly believe that this is in the best interests of the workforce, as it is important that their livelihoods are protected.  We continue to work with the Aurora Ethical Trading team located in London and China who work closely with our team and our suppliers to progress our strategy and ensure this remains effective.  We are closely involved in the development and implementation of the Ethical Trading strategy through the Ethical Trading Working Party which has representatives of Karen Millen, Coast, Oasis and Warehouse. The role of the working party is to develop policy, review the audits and support other Ethical Trading projects. The group ensures we benefit from best practice and knowledge across the brands. Additional CSR Policies  As well as our Code of Conduct on labour standards, we have adopted a number of other CSR policies which are contained within our supplier terms and conditions. These include:  Ban on cotton from Uzbekistan owing to ongoing concerns about forced labour, including forced child labour. REACH policy complying with EU regulations which aims to protect human health and the environment from dangerous substances. Animal welfare policy which bans real fur and animal testing on cosmetic or hygiene products.     CODE OF CONDUCT    Our corporate responsibility strategy is developing and continuously being reviewed as our business grows. Our strategy represents on going work to integrate ethical trade, environmental sustainability and community enhancement into everything that we do.  We have created a Karen Millen code of conduct which is built on the foundation principles of the Ethical Trade Initiative’s base code.  Please see our full statement here      ANIMAL WELFARE    We aim to promote the safe and humane treatment of animals used in the production of our products by requiring all of our suppliers adhere to our Animal Testing and Animal Welfare Policy which provides that:   Leather should be sourced in a sustained responsible manner.  Leathers & skins must only be obtained as a by-product and not for the sole purpose of the slaughter of an animal  No products in full or part are to be sourced from endangered species from the CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species) or IUCN  No real fur or pelts are to be used in any Karen Millen products  Animals should not be harmed either during farming methods or by the collection of their wool, & hair  Angora rabbit hair should not be used for any Karen Millen products  Merino wool cannot be used or purchased from sources that still practice’s mulesing. Suppliers will be asked to provide the wool source to ensure they meet our requirements and ensure safe and good sheep husbandry methods  Karen Millen does not accept any Leather/skin products obtained from live skinning or live boiling of animals  Karen Millen will only use shell products originating from non-endangered species  Karen Millen will not include ingredients, formulations or products from suppliers that have been party to animal testing for cosmetic purposes  Karen Millen suppliers are required to give full assurance and commitment that the Animal Testing and Animal Welfare Policy is strictly adhered to.      MODERN SLAVERY ACT    We are committed to working transparently, ethically and sustainably to support the people within our supply chain who make the products that our customers love and the environment and resources that surround them.  We recognise our potential to impact social and economic development in the territories that we work in. We have taken the opportunity to visit many of our suppliers and educate ourselves about the specific challenges that their environments present so that we can adapt our internal strategies and in turn support them to become better businesses offering more secure, sustainable jobs.  We are focussed on developing collaborative relationships with our suppliers and also with charitable organisations and initiatives that support and enhance our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy.  Responsible business practices and social awareness are virtues which we strive to honour in all of our operations and a central part of this is our continued efforts to ensure responsible supply chains.  We have a number of policies aimed at ensuring we conduct our business in an ethical and transparent manner. We update these regularly to ensure they remain relevant and we have done so recently to ensure they specifically refer to our intolerance of forced labour and our requirement for suppliers to implement appropriate controls to prevent modern slavery and notify Karen Millen immediately if they become aware of any modern slavery within their supply chains.  Please see our full statement here       TAX STRATEGY    In compliance with section 16(1) and Schedule 19 of the Finance Act 2016, Karen Millen is publishing its tax strategy for the year ending 24 February, 2018.  The principal activity of the Group is the selling of beautifully crafted women’s clothing, footwear and accessories.  This document, approved by the Board of Directors, sets out Karen Millen’s approach to conducting its tax affairs and dealing with tax risks, both in the UK and overseas. This strategy document will be reviewed annually and updated as appropriate  Karen Millen Group is committed to:   Following all applicable laws and regulations relating to its global tax activities.  Maintaining an open and honest relationship with all tax authorities based on collaboration and integrity.  Applying diligence and care in our management of the processes and procedures by which all tax related activities are undertaken, and ensuring that our tax governance is appropriate.   Risk management and governance arrangements  Karen Millen’s aim is for our global tax affairs to be transparent and compliant with tax legislation. We have a tax control framework in place to manage our tax risks and the controls are monitored frequently to ensure they are operating effectively. In addition, our internal structures are set up to ensure:   The Board of Directors understand the importance of tax compliance, and how it is achieved.  The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for establishing the overall tax governance with the Chief Financial Officer having key oversight and responsibility for monitoring the day to day operation of tax, supported by Finance and Tax Teams, as well as professional advisers.  The Board will have oversight to ensure tax planning and compliance is given appropriate attention.  Where there is uncertainty as to how relevant tax law should be interpreted, or applied, Karen Millen will seek external expert advice.   The processes by which we meet our tax obligations are kept under regular review, and include engaging with external tax advisers when required and investing in training for our staff.  Attitude of Karen Millen towards tax planning  Karen Millen aims to support the commercial needs of the business by ensuring that its affairs are carried out in a tax efficient manner, whilst remaining compliant with all relevant tax laws. The tax function is, therefore, involved in commercial decision making processes and provides appropriate input into business proposals to ensure a clear understanding of the tax consequences of any decisions made. Karen Millen does not undertake any aggressive tax planning activity, the sole or main purpose for which would be obtaining a tax advantage.  In cases where the tax guidance is unclear, or Karen Millen does not feel it has the necessary “in-house” expert knowledge to assess the tax consequences adequately, there is an established policy of seeking external advice.  Karen Millen will utilise available tax reliefs and incentives, where applicable, in a manner which is consistent with Governments’ tax policy objectives in both the UK and those overseas jurisdictions where we also have a tax presence.  Attitude towards tax risk  Karen Millen sees compliance with tax legislation as key to managing our tax risk.  We understand the importance of tax in the wider context of business decisions and have processes in place to ensure tax is considered as part of our decision making process. We have a low tolerance towards tax risk and proactively engage with professional tax advisers that allow us to achieve certainty in our global tax positions.  Given the prominence of our brand in the High Street, the Board is fully aware of the negative impact that an aggressive attitude towards tax would have on both our customers and reputation. Consequently, our approach is to ensure that we are compliant and understand our tax responsibilities and the Board considers that strong internal processes and good relationships with our professional advisers are the best way to manage this potential reputational risk.  Approach towards dealing with Tax Authorities  Karen Millen is committed to the principles of openness and transparency in its approach to its dealings with the tax authorities we engage with around the world. All dealings with these tax authorities and other relevant bodies are conducted in a collaborative, courteous and timely manner. Specifically, Karen Millen commits to:   Making fair, accurate and timely disclosures in correspondence and returns, and responding to queries and information requests in a timely fashion.  Seeking to resolve issues with Tax Authorities in a timely manner and, where disagreements arise, work to resolve those issues by agreement wherever possible.  Be open and transparent about decision-making, governance and tax compliance.  Interpret relevant tax laws in accordance with generally accepted customs and practice.  Ensure all interactions with Tax Authorities are conducted in an open, collaborative and professional manner; and specifically in respect of our UK tax activities.  Engaging with HMRC, principally through our CRM relationship, in all significant tax matters.       JOIN THE KM AFFILIATE NETWORK    Glamorous, distinctive clothing and accessories for the confident, uncompromising woman of today. We are known worldwide for our perfectly cut pieces, from on trend leather jackets to investment coats and occasion wear. With online & store presence across the UK, America, Europe, Asia & Australia, we're truly a global brand. We're now looking for true fashionistas to join our affiliate network, so whether you're an up and coming fashion blogger or have your own site dedicated to style, we'd love to have you as a member of our network!  The benefits of our network:   Free to join network, with access to our latest content updates & image archive  commission on sales, excluding delivery & returned products  30 day cookie window, allowing you to receive commission for sales made within this time from your site  Real time tracking & reporting options   What do I need to do as an affiliate?   Simply place our beautifully presented ads on your site or blog  Access our brand page for updates about our latest trends, best selling products & fashion edits   How do I become a Karen Millen affiliate?   Simply click here to register with the Linkshare affiliate network Once you've been approved, you can choose from a variety of our creative banners and text links we've provided within the network  Post our creative banners on your site that will best attract your customers to click through and purchase  You'll then receive 5% commission on customer purchases, excluding delivery & returned products       PRESS CONTACT    For Press information please contact:  United Kingdom  Head of Global PR  Francesca Johnson 69-77 Paul Street London EC2A 4PN  E: f.johnson@karenmillen.co.uk   PR Coordinator  Hatty Bell 69-77 Paul Street London EC2A 4PN  E: h.bell@karenmillen.co.uk   United States  PR & Marketing Coordinator  Ryan Rodriguez Karen Millen 587 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10017  T: +1(212)202-3180 ext 5476  E: r.rodriguez@karenmillen.co.uk   Australia  Publicity & Marketing Manager  Silvia Tasinato 19 Newton Street Richmond, VIC Australia 3121  T: +613 9421 2688 EXT 203  E: silvia@karenmillen.com.au       GENDER PAY GAP REPORT          As a brand, Karen Millen helps women all over the world feel confident and empowered through our beautifully designed clothes. As an employer, we’re committed to encouraging women and men to fulfil their career aspirations through our supportive culture and fair pay practices.    Our gender pay gap of 49% (on a median basis) and 50% (mean) paints a misleading picture about our commitment to gender diversity and equality at Karen Millen.  Our pay gap is highly influenced by the salaries and gender make-up of the stylists who work in our stores. As a fashion brand dedicated to women, where we outsource our distribution centres, we tend to attract more female employees than men. The result of which is that women represent 94% of our workforce.  The majority make up our large team of passionate and committed stylists, serving our customers in stores up and down the country.  Our small percentage of male employees work mostly in head office roles, which – traditionally and in keeping with most retailers – tend to be higher paid.
Excluding head office roles, our gender pay gap drops to 6%.  The following numbers provide more detail about the makeup of our workforce and evidence our commitment to championing all our colleagues, regardless of gender.  Facts:    759 (number of Full Pay relevant remployees)    94% women  6% men    80% of our Leadership Team are women versus 23% UK Average   The mean is the average of the combined numbers in a data set The median is the middle number that splits the top 50% from the bottom 50%    Mean Pay Gap - Total  Median Pay Gap - Total    50%  49%    Mean Bonus Pay  Median Bonus Pay    -30%  96%    We have a larger proportion of females working in retail being paid retail bonuses, the majority of which are lower value amounts when compared to head office roles. This brings down the females mean bonus value. 58 females received a bonus and 4 males which as a proportion is equal to 8% for both genders, demonstrating our fair distribution across males and females.  Proportion of men and women across UK business in each quartile (Quartile 1 being the lowest pay rates, Quartile 4 being the highest):     Quartiles - Total  Male  Female     Q1 (lowest paid)  2%  98%    Q2  3%  97%    Q3  5%  95%    Q4 (highest paid)  16%  84%    If we were to look just at our retail teams our results would read as follows:     Retail Mean Pay Gap  Retail Median Pay Gap     6%  7%    Proportion of men and women in each quartile (Quartile 1 being the lowest pay rates, Quartile 4 being the highest)     Quartiles - Total  Proportion of males in this quartile  Proportion of females in this quartile     Q1 (lowest paid)  2%  98%    Q2  0%  100%    Q3  4%  96%    Q4 (highest paid)  5%  95%    We’re proud to be a business with a female CEO and CFO, and a leadership team which is 80% female. However, we recognise we can do more to champion diversity at all levels of our business and ensure everyone can build and sustain a successful and rewarding career.  We’re re-engineering our recruitment strategy, to ensure we can attract a wide range of potential employees underpinned in the knowledge that Karen Millen is a great place to work for everyone, regardless of age, gender or ethnicity. We look forward to creating a more diverse workforce and helping to build a solid pipeline of future leaders in retail.  Beth Butterwick                {
"phone" : {
"us" : "^[0-9 \\-]+$",
"gb" : "^[0-9 \\-]+$",
"ca" : "^[0-9 \\-]+$",
"de" : "^[0-9 \\-]+$",
"default" : "^[0-9 \\-]+$"
},
"postal" : {
"us" : "(^\\d{5}(-\\d{4})?$)|(^[abceghjklmnprstvxyABCEGHJKLMNPRSTVXY]{1}\\d{1}[A-Za-z]{1} *\\d{1}[A-Za-z]{1}\\d{1}$)",
"gb" : "^(GIR ?0AA|[A-PR-UWYZ]([0-9]{1,2}|([A-HK-Y][0-9]([0-9ABEHMNPRV-Y])?)|[0-9][A-HJKPS-UW]) ?[0-9][ABD-HJLNP-UW-Z]{2})$",
"ca" : "(^[ABCEGHJKLMNPRSTVXYabceghjklmnprstvxy]{1}\\d{1}[a-zA-Z]{1} *\\d{1}[a-zA-Z]{1}\\d{1}$)",
"de" : "^(?!01000|99999)(0[1-9]\\d{3}|[1-9]\\d{4})$",
"default" : ""
},
"email" : {
"us" : "",
"gb" : "",
"ca" : "",
"de" : "",
"default" : "^[\\w.%+\\-]+@[\\w.\\-]+\\.[\\w]{2,6}$"
},
"notCC" : {
"us" : "",
"gb" : "",
"ca" : "",
"de" : "",
"default" : "^(?!(([0-9 -]){13,19})).*$"
}
}    Newsletter    Email signup  Email address   Sign up       Customer Service  Contact Us  FAQ's  Delivery  Returns    Online Information  My Account  Size guide  Store Locator  Student Discount  Gift Card  KM Card    Discover KM  About Us  Careers  Terms & Conditions  Business Development  iPhone App    Newsletter    Email signup  Email address   Sign up      Follow Us   Facebook   Twitter   Instagram   Pinterest   Google+   YouTube      Select Your Country        United Kingdom / English  United Kingdom    GBP                                   