 

 
 
Gender Pay Gap Report  
 
From 6 April 2017 employers in Great Britain with more than 250 staff are required to publish 
their gender pay gap information annually, using six different measures, covering pay and 
bonuses.  The first report is for a snapshot of pay data on 31/3/17 which is also published on 
the Gender Pay Gap Reporting pages of the Gov.uk website.  The purpose of the reporting is 
to increase awareness, improve pay transparency and to encourage closing the gap.   
 
It is important to clarify that the gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.  Equal pay is 
concerned with the individual earnings of a female and male doing equal work.  The gender 
pay gap is a measure of comparison between average hourly rates of pay and bonuses.  
Cheshire and Wirral Partnership NHS Foundation Trust (CWP) employs staff across a range 
of roles and adheres to the appropriate national NHS Medical and Dental Pay and Conditions 
and the national NHS job evaluation framework within Agenda for Change.  All pay scales 
provide a process for paying employees equally regardless of gender for the same or 
equivalent work together with paypoints for annual progression.   
 
Gender Pay Gap – Hourly Rates as at 31 March 2017 
 
CWP employed 3490 staff as at 31 March 2017 of which 78.65% were female and 21.35% 
were male. 
 
The reporting requires the pay gap to be presented as both median and mean.  Median is 
used because it isn’t affected by extreme values but the mean or average calculation 
captures where men and women sit in the earnings distribution.  The mean is the average of 
all the numbers in a dataset, that is, you have to add up all the numbers and then divide the 
result by how many numbers you are dealing with.  The median is the numerical value which 
splits the top 50% of the figures from the bottom 50%. 
 
CWP’s pay gap for basic hourly rates is as follows.  On average, men are paid 11.98% higher 
than women.  The median difference shows that men are paid 4.79% higher than women.  
The chart below shows how this compares to the national gender pay gap in the public sector 
(figures from the Office of National Statistics 2017, published October 2017): 
 

  

CWP Pay 
Gap % 
National 
Public Sector 
Pay Gap % 

Average 
Hourly 
Rate 

Median 
Hourly 
Rate 

11.98% 

4.79% 

17.70%  19.40% 

 
When medical pay is removed the difference in pay on Agenda for Change pay scales falls.  
Without medical pay in the figures, men are paid 0.29% on average higher than women and 
there is no difference in the median hourly pay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
The following chart shows the proportions of male and female employees in four quartile pay 
bands including medical pay.  This is calculated by sorting pay by hourly rate and dividing the 
workforce into four equal parts: 
 

 
The following charts detail the pay gap by band and staff group.  Minus figures indicate that 
the hourly rate for women is higher than for men.   
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap – Bonus Pay 
 
Bonus pay includes Clinical Excellence Awards, Recognition of Service Awards, Retirement 
Awards and discretionary points paid between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017 for all staff 
including medical staff.  
 
A total of 205 staff were paid a bonus between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017.  The 
following chart details the split by gender: 
 

Gender 

Female 

Male 

No. of Employees 
Paid Bonus 

Total No. of 
Relevant 
Employees 

% 

154 

51 

3070 

5.02% 

817 

6.24% 

 
The average bonus payment was 69.36% higher for men while the median was 40% higher.   
 
Next Steps 
 
Although CWP’s hourly gender pay gap is less than the national gender pay gap in the public 
sector there is still work to be done to reduce the gap further wherever this exists for each 
band and staff group and we also need to address the high gap in bonus payments.  Key 
drivers for the gender pay gap are believed to be the outcome of a variety of factors outside 
the control of individuals e.g. unpaid carer responsibilities, occupational segregation.  
However further investigation is needed into the detail and reasons for the gap in CWP and  
an action plan produced to close the gap.  CWP will task the Trustwide Equality and Diversity 
Group to undertake this work. 
 

 

 

