GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

Here at Visage we are a team that is a combination of talent, experience, passion and dedication. We aim to recruit and retain the best 

the industry has to offer. We  embrace our diverse workforce, this facilitates a wider pool of creativity and inspiration as it mirrors the 

customers for whom we design and deliver. Our people are the key to success.

WHAT DOES THE GENDER PAY GAP MEAN?

The Gender Pay Gap is the measure between the difference between the 
average (mean or median) earnings of men and women. For the calculation it 
takes the pay information as of the 5th April 2017

The mean is an average and the median is the middle number when hourly rates 
are placed in order from lowest to highest. Reporting both the Mean and the 
Median provides a more rounded understanding of any Gender Pay Gap. Both 
calculations are expressed as a percentage of male earnings.

The Gender Pay Gap should not be confused with Equal Pay as it is not the 
same. Equal Pay tackles pay inequity where members of the opposite sex carry 
out equal work. The Gender Pay Gap brings focus to issues that drive the pay 
gap for example fewer women in senior positions or where certain functions are 
dominated by a specific gender. We are committed to supporting equality 
through fair pay and we strive to ensure that men and women are paid equally 
for doing equal work.

mean 
pay gap

median
pay gap

mean
bonus 

gap

median
bonus 

gap

The national mean gender pay gap is 17.4% and the median gender pay gap is 18.4%.  Our data is below both national averages, This means that our 
Gender Pay Gap is better than the average UK business .  The ordinary pay gap  is based on a snapshot period that includes 5 April 2017. The bonus pay 
gap is based on the 12-month period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES 

RECEIVING A BONUS

PAY QUARTILES

Lower

Lower Middle

16.87%

30.56%

43.75%

56.25%

23.53%

76.47%

MEAN 1.23%

MEDIAN -2.58%

MEAN -0.50%

MEDIAN -4.29%

Upper Middle

Upper

19.05%

80.95%

31.15%

68.85%

MEAN -0.23%

MEDIAN -1.63%

MEAN 33.73%

MEDIAN 16.02%

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

WHAT DO OUR RESULTS SHOW?

The gender split within the business is 32% male and 68% female.  
Whilst this gender split is common to the retail sector, we are not 
complacent. The salary quartiles show that the main source of the gender 
pay gap is the upper quartile.  Although the upper quartile is female 
dominated, the most senior (and highly paid) roles are occupied by men. 

Similarly, the most senior roles also generate the highest bonus payments 
and our mean bonus pay gap of 42.86% reflects that.  Proportionately, 
more women than men receive a bonus so the median bonus gap is a 
more accurate reflection; it is -1.56% which is in favour of women. Across 
the other quartiles (75% of the business), the gender pay gap is less than 
1.3% and the median is in favour of females.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

OUR COMMITMENT

We will continue to promote and celebrate inclusion and diversity

within the business and the wider community in line with our

corporate sustainability strategy.

We will

train all employees to help them understand their

unconscious bias.

We recognise that the market is continually changing. For that

reason we will be mindful of benchmarking roles against

the

relevant market to ensure that we make gender neutral pay and

recruitment decisions relevant

to a role and not a particular

individual.

Aim to attract and retain the best talent, regardless of gender.

Continue to support both women and men to achieve their full

potential in the business.

We will examine further

the Gender Pay Gaps within our

organisation to ensure we fully understand them and consider

ways to reduce them.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

