         [  ENGLISH  ]    UK            Applus+ Group    Applus+ Divisions    Countries [+]           Applus+ RTD around the world        Australia   Canada  Czech Republic   Germany   Indonesia  Nigeria  Norway      Singapore  Slovakia  South Africa   The Netherlands   UAE   UK    USA       GLOBAL SITE          Applus+ RTD around the world        Australia   Canada  Czech Republic   Germany   Indonesia  Nigeria  Norway      Singapore  Slovakia  South Africa   The Netherlands   UAE   UK    USA       GLOBAL SITE            What we do     By activity   Advanced NDT    Aerospace Inspection    Engineering and Commissioning    Non-destructive Testing    Rope Access    Statutory Inspections and Certification    Storage Tanks Vessels and Spheres    Technical Staffing    Training School    Ultrasonic Probes    Vendor Inspection & Expediting     By industry   Chemical Industry    Oil & Gas - Downstream    Oil & Gas - Upstream    Power    Storage Tank Terminals        About us      Applus+ RTD in brief    Our history    Applus+ RTD around the world    The Applus+ Group    Ethics and compliance    HSQE    Success stories        News      News    Press Centre    Events    Publications        Contact us    Careers    Site map          Home >  News >  Publications    Publications          Contact us    Contact us form    Head Office      Our offices per country  Australia  Canada  Czech Republic  Germany  Indonesia  Nigeria  Norway  Singapore  Slovakia  South Africa  The Netherlands  UAE  UK  USA           Gender Pay Gap Report   29/03/2018  Gender Pay Gap Report  Read More »      Impulse November 2014   20/11/2014  Welcome to our November issue of Impulse. We re-energized the design of Impulse, we hope you like it!
In this number we highlight the recent third Applus RTD Global Safety Day. Other articles focus on global activities and developments like the new RTD plant Master monitoring system.  Read More »      Impulse May 2014   19/05/2014  In this issue of Impulse, Applus RTD CEO Iain Light gives an insight into his views on
the importance of ‘re-energizing’ the company to face and overcome the challenges
that lie ahead. To succeed, he focuses initially on getting to the heart of what the
Applus RTD brand means and represents, and then to ensuring that the company is
always perceived as a totally professional operation, while clearly stating what the
organization stands for both to colleagues and for our clients.  Read More »      Impulse December 2013   20/12/2013  With every edition of Impulse, it is our aim to both surprise and stimulate you. In this issue, a range of interesting items from all over the world is presented. From the growing appreciation of the value of proper training to making the most of resources available and the benefits of teamwork across a wide variety of operations. As usual readers will also find the latest news from other activities
and people all over the world.  Read More »      Meeting challenges through innovative solutions   30/10/2013  This book looks back on what we have achieved with everyone over the years through teamwork and commitment. Our history of the developments has been fascinating and still we are continuously exploring new technologies to find the best solutions for our clients in the energy sector.  Read More »      Impulse May 2013   15/05/2013  With every edition of Impulse, it is our aim to both surprise and stimulate you. In this issue, a range of interesting items from all over the world is presented. From the growing
acceptance of the benefits of rope access
techniques and the value of proper training
to ensure their safe and effective use, to
making the most of resources available and
the benefits of teamwork across a wide
variety of operations. As usual readers will
also find the latest news from other activities and people all over the world.  Read More »      Capability brochure   01/10/2012  In our capability brochure you will find all the services we provide worldwide.  Read More »      Rope Access brochure   01/10/2012  Whatever the challenge, whatever the location – onshore and offshore, from industrial, public and private buildings to infrastructures like roads and railways, rope access technology helps ensure that every aspect of the inspection, engineering and fabric
maintenance of assets is carried out to the most stringent international standards.  Read More »      Catalogus Ultrasone tasters   01/10/2012  Als een van de grootste NDO dienstverleners ter wereld, weet Applus RTD hoe belangrijk het is om de juiste tasters te selecteren; daarom ontwikkelen wij ze in huis en kunnen we u ook de juiste taster voor uw uitdaging bieden. In deze catalogus vind u de verschillende tasters die wij aanbieden.  Read More »      Impulse July 2012   10/07/2012  Here you will find our newest Impulse magazines with all relevant projects and innovative techniques for the energy sector.  Read More »           Careers  See our job opportunities         Applus+ RTD  Our international presence                         | © 2013 Applus+ |  Conditions of use and privacy policy |  Site map |  Follow us                  