                               MINI   Page Navigation   Home  Production   Body In White  Paint Shop  Engines  Assembly  Quality  Logistics  Flexibility  Suppliers     Facts & Figures   BMW Group in the UK  MINI Production  History  Plant Tour     People   Apprenticeships  Internships  Graduates  Professional  Opportunities  GENDER PAY GAP     Values   Environment  Community  Governance     Location & Contact  Hauliers     MINI Plant Oxford          Gender Pay Gap       Diversity is the engine of our success - today and in the future -
because a diverse workforce is an important force for innovation.
The BMW Group is convinced that diversity is crucial to our ability
to perform effectively and will ensure the long-term success of our
Company.  The full Board of Management of the BMW Group established a
commitment to diversity as part of the Company's human resources
and sustainability strategy back in 2010. In 2011, the BMW Group
signed up to the Diversity Charter in Germany and committed itself
to create a working environment free of prejudices.  At MINI Plant Oxford, we are working hard on a corporate culture
that promotes tolerance, mutual respect and equality of
opportunity. In this report, we provide our gender pay gap
information, identify the reasons behind the gap and our plans to
help close it.  We support the UK Government's drive for companies to be more
transparent on gender pay issues and confirm that the data reported
is accurate and in line with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap
Information) Regulations 2017.      To read the report please click here: /media/107316/gdpr_oxford_report.pdf                   Page Footer   Book a plant tour Come and see MINI production. How to find us. Helpful directions and contact information can be found here.    Quicklinks  Apprentice, Intern and Graduate Facebook HOW TO FIND US Careers Page    Footer Links   Contact  Imprint  BMW Group Sites  Mini.co.uk  Rolls-Royce Motorcars     Bookmark this page    Site map  Privacy policy        