Gender Pay Gap Report

Snapshot date: 31 March 2017

1

Contents

Introduction

Background

Context

Police officers

Police staff

Gender pay gap data

Average pay gap

Non-consolidated (bonus) payments

Pay quartiles

Actions

About this audit

3

4

5

5

6

7

7

8

9

10

11

2

Introduction

One specific requirement of the Equality Act (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 is 
that all public sector employers with 250 or more employees will publish information about gender pay gaps. These 
regulations are an extension of the existing public-sector equality duties.

In accordance with that legislation, this is the first such annual gender pay report produced by Leicestershire Police.

The data upon which the body of this report is based takes as its snapshot date 31 March 2017, whilst the 
information relating to gender bonus gaps is taken from the whole financial year commencing 1 April 2016.

In addition, the report has been produced in line with the Equalities Act 2010 and associated ACAS Guidance 
‘Managing Gender Pay Gap reporting’.

The national mean (average) gender pay gap is 18.1% and, as this report illustrates, the gap in Leicestershire Police 
on the snapshot date was 14.3% - some 3.8% lower. When we consider the police officers as a group on their own 
the pay gap is 3.9% and for police staff it is 4.9%.

However, in interpreting the statistics it is important to also understand the complexities, and inherent dangers, of 
comparing figures. Whilst we pride ourselves as operating as one police family, our workforce, unlike many other 
public sector bodies, comprises two very different types of worker.

On the one hand we have police officers – servants of The Crown - who operate within police regulations and a 
nationally-agreed pay structure which are wholly different to the other main branch of our workforce, contracted 
employees.

Additionally, the majority of our police officer ranks are populated by men, whilst the inverse is true of our police staff.

Accordingly, care must be taken when considering the pay gaps which exist between the two genders in the 
workforce and it would be wise to accept that the comparisons are, in some ways, not like for like.

The gaps highlighted in this report do not mean that men and women are being paid differently for equal work; 
rather, that the makeup of the workforce skews the total pay gaps as we are combining a higher percentage of male 
police officers with a higher percentage of female police staff.

As well as setting out the current gaps, this report explains the steps taken by the organisation to close still further, 
wherever possible, those gaps which do exist and over which we can have some influence.

Our People Strategy sets out a number of important commitments, namely to:

• 
• 
• 

ensure that our policies and practices are transparent and fair;
attract, recruit and retain the best officers, staff and volunteers; and
ensure that we operate in accordance with the Code of Ethics.

My commitment to reducing the pay gap remains firm and we will, in the coming years, introduce further measures 
to ensure the workforce is better representative of the gender make up the communities we serve in Leicester, 
Leicestershire and Rutland.

I am confident that our practices in recruitment and the application of bonuses will bridge the existing gap still further 
and that, over time, our approach to getting a more evenly distributed workforce split will further reduce that gap.

Chief Constable Simon Cole, QPM

3

Background

The Gender Pay Gap is different to the Equal Pay Gap. The key differences are:-

•  Equal Pay deals with pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar 

jobs or work of equal value;

•  Gender Pay Gap shows the difference in the average pay between men and women.

The Gender Pay Gap can be measured in 
various ways. The ‘mean’ (average) gender 
pay gap is the arithmetic use of average by 
adding the quantities together and dividing the 
sum by the number of quantities. The ‘median’ 
represents the middle value.

Each of the measures provides a slightly 
different impression of the gender pay gap. The 
mean gives an overall indication of the size of 
the gender pay gap whilst the median gives an 
indication of a typical situation.

This report sets out the context behind the different staff groups within policing, provides Gender Pay Gap data in 
accordance with the legislative requirements, and provides an outline of the actions already carried out or proposed 
to be undertaken by Leicestershire Police to support reducing the gender pay gap and supporting the fair treatment 
of all.

Leicestershire Police is committed to continuing to review and assess the impact of its pay practices and policies in 
relation to gender pay across the force, especially as police officers and police staff continue to work alongside each 
other performing roles which increasingly overlap in terms of role and responsibilities.

Leicestershire Police has two main occupational groups for the purposes of this audit - police 
staff who are employed under a contract of employment, and police officers who are employed 
as ‘Servants of the Crown’.

Police officers
53.9% of our 

workforce

Police staff
46.1% of our 

workforce

72.1% male

27.9% female

39.6% male

60.4% female

Police Community Support Officers (PCSOs) are operational, uniformed police staff and are included amongst the 
police staff category.

4

Context

To help interpret our Gender Pay Gap figures, it is important to understand the differences between the 
employment status of police officers and police staff. They have different pay and conditions of service, and this is 
reflected in their pay and reward packages.

Police officers

Police officers have a unique status and 
are not employed under a contract of 
employment. Therefore much of employment 
legislation that applies to individuals who work 
under a contract of employment does not apply 
to police officers. For example, police officers 
cannot be made redundant and they do not 
have the right to strike.

Even though they don’t have a contract of 
employment, some employment legislation does 
apply to police officers, including legislation 
relating to all forms of unlawful discrimination, 
health and safety, public interest disclosures 
and the payment of wages.

The unique status of police officers derives from the ‘office of constable’ based on an oath of allegiance to the 
Crown.  Police officers’ pay and conditions of service are determined under police specific regulations which are set 
by the Secretary of State for the Home Office.

Changes to these terms and conditions are based on the recommendations made by the Police Remuneration 
Review Body (PRRB).  Pay scales are updated annually via a circular issued under the Secretary of States powers 
under the 2003 Police Regulations. 

The pay structure has a separate pay scale for each rank, with annual increments subject to satisfactory 
performance. Police officers work a standard 40 hour working week, unless they have agreed a flexible working 
pattern to vary these hours.

There are no additional payments for working at the 
weekend, or additional shift allowances. However, 
officers up to the rank of Chief Inspector receive a 10% 
allowance for working whole hours between 8pm and 6am. 
Constables and Sergeants are entitled to claim overtime 
at enhanced rates of pay or time off in lieu (TOIL) whereas 
Inspectors and above are salaried and are not entitled to 
overtime pay.

Organisations that represent police officers - for example 
the Police Federation (which represents officers up the rank 
of Chief Inspector), the Superintendents Association (which 
represents Superintendents and Chief Superintendents) 
and the Chief Police Officers’ Staff Association (which 
represents Chief Officers) - are not trade unions and 
not subject to the usual statutory provisions regulating 
employee relations matters. 

5

Police staff

In contrast to police officers, police staff are considered ‘employees’ under employment legislation and are 
employed under a contract of employment.

Since 1 April 2014 most police staff have been employed by the Chief Constable of a particular force (as a 
corporation sole).

The Police Staff Council (PSC) was established in 1995 to negotiate on police staff pay and conditions of service.  
Its constitution comprises an official side made up of representatives from the Home Office, the Association of 
Police and Crime Commissioners and the National Police Chiefs Council, and the trade union comprising Unison, 
GMB and Unite representatives.

PSC decisions are reached by a collective bargaining approach but are only binding on forces that have 
incorporated these conditions into their contracts of employment. Leicestershire Police is one such police force.

The PSC agreement has a single pay spine normally renegotiated annually with effect from 1 September; however 
each individual force can determine a local grading structure and grades based on the pay spine, and decide locally 
the appropriate salary or grading levels.

Police staff are subject to employment-related legislation and employee relations are handled through the normal 
consultation and negotiation processes with Trade Unions.  The local trade union representation for staff employed 
by Leicestershire Police is Unison and GMB.

A small number of staff are employed directly by the local Police and Crime Commissioner (PCC) for any given 
police force area.  Employees contracted to work for the PCC for Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland have not 
been included within this report. This is because the PCC is considered a separate employer and, in any event, 
employs fewer than 250 employees.

6

Gender pay gap data

Hourly pay

Mean gender pay gap

Table 1

Median gender pay gap

Table 2

When comparing male police officers with female police officers, we are comparing the same or similar rates of pay 
at each rank for all police officers. This is very much a like for like comparison.

When comparing male police staff with female police staff, we are comparing the same or similar rates of pay at 
each pay grade for all police staff. Again, this is very much a like for like comparison.

When comparing all staff together we are comparing police officer salaries with police staff salaries and these are 
different. As can be seen from the tables above, male police officers receive the highest average hourly rate of pay of 
the four categories, and female police staff receive the lowest average hourly rate across those categories.

Because male police officers make up 68.1% of all male employees, this has the impact of increasing the average 
hourly rate of all males overall. Similarly, because female police staff make up 64.9% of all female employees, this 
has the impact of decreasing the average hourly rate of all females overall. Without context, this polarisation is 
responsible for making the pay gap appear inconsistent.

The above explanation applies to both the mean and median approaches to obtaining the ‘All Staff’ gender pay gap. 
By comparing police officer pay with police staff pay, the method used to obtain the average merely skews a broadly 
similar outcome to a greater or lesser extent.

7

Bonus pay

Proportion receiving bonus payments
Table 3

This table shows that, proportionately, more males receive bonus payments than females in all categories (officers, 
staff, and all staff). On analysis of the data, in order for females to be equitable with males, just ten more females 
overall would have to be in receipt of a bonus payment.

Mean bonus payment gap
Table 4

Analysis conducted of the above bonus payment data highlighted that that one single payment was distorting the 
overall bonus pay gap for police staff. With this anomaly removed, the average bonus payment for males reduces to 
£23.57 and so gives an overall bonus pay gap for police staff in favour of females of -52.6%.

When the two groups are combined, the ‘All Staff’ average for males reduces to £88.55 which gives an overall 
average pay gap of 26.7%.

Median bonus payment pay gap
Table 5

Analysis of the above bonus payment data established that one payment was distorting the overall bonus pay gap 
for police staff. With the removal of this anomaly, the median bonus payment for males reduces to £13.50 which 
gives an overall bonus pay gap for police staff in favour of females of -11.1%.

When the two groups are combined, the ‘All Staff’ median bonus average for males remains at £100 and therefore 
the overall average pay gap of 74.1% remains unchanged.

8

Hourly pay quartiles

Police officer pay quartiles
Table 6

Police staff pay quartiles
Table 7

All staff pay quartiles
Table 8

9

Actions

Leicestershire Police has taken a number of steps over recent years to promote gender equality within the 
workforce. This work continues unabated, and we hope will further abridge the gender pay gap in the coming 
years. The following highlight just some of the actions and initiatives undertaken in recent years:

•  Carrying out recruitment campaigns and awareness days to promote equality, engaging with partners, the local 

communities and staff at all levels

• 

Leicestershire Police is a corporate member of the Opportunity Now Campaign (BiTC) which works to increase 
women’s success at work to the benefit of the individual and organisation

•  Promoted flexible working opportunities including agile working, a flexi-time scheme, part-time hours, job share 

and term time working

•  Monitoring recruitment practices including the numbers of men and women who apply for and are recruited into 

roles within the organisation

•  Conducting Equal Pay Reviews for police staff in relation to gender (in 2005, 2012 and 2016)

•  Carrying out Equality Impact Assessments to assess how a policy/procedure or project could affect people from 

different groups and those with protected characteristics, including gender

•  Providing an Equality Supporters Scheme which provides a role of equality supporter to give confidential advice 

and support to any member of staff who feels that they may have been treated unfairly in the workplace

•  Providing a range of training and development opportunities in relation to valuing difference and diversity 
including unconscious bias training, and delivering selection and interviewing skills training which has an 
emphasis on objectivity and fairness, and developing different avenues of training delivery to support those who 
work part-time

• 

Facilitating a women only course entitled ‘Leading with Impact’ to develop a more representative workforce by 
encouraging officers and staff to apply for development opportunities and progression

•  Providing staff networks including the Women’s Inclusive Network (WIN) which is committed to improving the 

working environment and promote greater representation of women throughout the organisation

•  Moving this year from the historic Local Authority Job Evaluation Scheme, which does not comply with the intent 

of Equality legislation, to the Hay Scheme which is nationally recognised

•  Celebrating achievements of women to mark International Women’s Day and International Women’s history 

month in March through a series of internal communications activity

10

Appendix 1

About this audit- glossary and calculations

This report is based on data taken from the ‘snapshot date’ for public sector employers of 31 March 2017.

The gender bonus gap information is based on the bonus data taken from the 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.

The report has been produced in line with the Equalities Act 2010 and associated ACAS Guidance ‘Managing 
Gender Pay Gap reporting’.

Any agency workers who provide services for Leicestershire Police are included in the publication for the 
relevant agency.

What is included within the data analysis:-

‘Ordinary Pay’ data includes basic pay, payments for extra responsibilities and on call.

Gross figures are used before tax and any deductions for pension contributions and after any deductions for salary 
sacrifice.

‘Bonus Payment’ data includes any rewards relating to productivity, incentive and performance. Included within the 
report are honoraria payments for police staff and bonus payments for police officers (further detail outlined below).

Police Officers -

The Chief Constable can award a one off bonus payment to an individual police officer of £50 
to £500 per head for demanding, unpleasant or outstanding work.  The Chief Constable can 
also recognise whole teams of police officers with a team recognition payment capped at up to 
£100 per officer.

Police Staff - 

Police Forces have the discretion to pay honoraria bonus payments, either as an addition to 
monthly salary for a set period of time, or as a one off discretionary lump sum.  A policy is 
decided by local collective agreement. Currently within Leicestershire Police a discretionary 
lump sum is usually given on the completion of a particular project or to reward an exceptional 
piece of work.  These one off payments are capped at £500.

The force does not have bonuses relating to commission or profit sharing.

What is not included within the data analysis:-

Overtime pay, redundancy pay, pay related to termination of employment, payments of authorised expenses, pay in 
lieu of annual leave, salary sacrifice schemes, housing allowances, allowances earned during overtime hours, any 
interest free loans, or benefits in kind.

11

Mean gender pay gap calculation steps 

1.  Add together the hourly pay rates for all male full pay relevant employees
2.  Divide this figure by the number of male full pay employees which gives the mean hourly pay rate for men
3.  Add together the hourly pay rates for all female full pay relevant employees
4.  Divide this figure by the number of female full pay employees which gives the mean hourly pay rate for women
5.  Subtract the mean hourly pay rate for women from the mean hourly pay rate for men
6.  Divide the result of the mean hourly pay rate for men
7.  Multiply the result by 100 which give the mean gender pay gap in hourly pay as a percentage of men’s pay

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay calculation steps 

1.  Arrange the hourly pay rates of all male full pay relevant employees from the highest to the lowest
2.  Find the hourly pay rate that is in the middle of the range to provide the median hourly rate of pay for men
3.  Arrange the hourly pay rates of all female full pay relevant employees from the highest to the lowest
4.  Find the hourly pay rate that is in the middle of the range which gives the hourly rate of pay for women
5.  Subtract the median hourly pay rate for women from the median hourly pay rate for men
6.  Divide the result by the median hourly pay rate for men
7.  Multiply the result by 100 which give the medial gender pay gap in hourly pay as a percentage of men’s pay

Bonus pay figures calculation steps

Proportion of males and females calculation

1.  Gather data for the number of male relevant employees who were paid bonus pay in the 12 month snapshot date
2.  Divide this by the number of male relevant employees
3.  Multiply the result by 100 which gives the percentage of males who were paid a bonus
4.  Gather the number of female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay in the 12 months snapshot date
5.  Divide this by the number of female relevant employees
6.  Multiply the result by 100 which give the percentage of females who were paid a bonus

Mean gender pay gap in bonus pay calculation steps 

1.  Add together the bonus payments made to all male relevant employees in the 12 months to the snapshot date
2.  Divide this figure by the number of male relevant employees which gives the mean amount of bonus pay for men
3.  Add together the bonus payments made to all female relevant employees in the 12 months to the snapshot date
4.  Divide this figure by the number of female relevant employees which gives the mean amount of bonus pay for women
5.  Subtract the mean bonus amount for women from the mean bonus for men
6.  Divide the result by the mean bonus amount for men
7.  Multiply the result by 100 which give the mean gender pay gap for bonuses as a percentage of men’s pay

12

Median gender pay gap in bonus pay calculation steps 

1.  Arrange the bonus pay amounts paid to all male relevant employees in the year to the snapshot date from highest 

to lowest

2.  Find the bonus pay amount that is in the middle of the range which gives the median bonus pay figure for men
3.  Arrange the bonus pay amounts paid to all female relevant employees in the year to the snapshot date from 

highest to lowest

4.  Find the bonus pay amount that is in the middle of the range which gives the median bonus pay figure for women
5.  Subtract the median bonus pay figure for women from the median bonus pay figure for men
6.  Divide the result by the median bonus pay figure for men
7.  Multiply the result by 100 which give the median gender pay gap for bonus pay as a percentage of men’s pay

Gender pay gap quartile figures calculation steps

1.  Gather a list of the hourly rate for all full pay relevant employees in the pay period covering the snapshot date
2.  Divide this list into 4 quartiles with and equal number of employees within each section from the highest to the 

lowest paid

3.  Where there are employees on the same hourly rate of pay crossing the quartiles, the male and females are split 

as evenly as possible across the quartiles

4.  Divide the number of full pay relevant employees by the total number of full pay relevant employees and multiply 

by 100 which gives the percentage of males in the quartile

5.  Divide the number of female full pay relevant employees by the total number of full pay relevant employees and 

multiply by 100 which give the percentage of females in the quartile

13

