 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

Barton Peveril Sixth Form College 

Report published March 2018 relating to 

the College’s position in March 2017 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report - March 2018 
This report is the first Gender Pay Gap report produced by Barton Peveril Sixth Form 
College in response to the new legislation requiring its publication. 

The headline figure is that the College’s mean Gender Pay Gap as measured on 
31st March 2017 was 15.92%. This is below the national figure of 18.1% as reported 
by the Office for National Statistics for April 2016. 

This narrative provides contextual information around this gender pay gap reporting 
and breaks the overall figures down into a more meaningful analysis. 
Background 
The government introduced legislation that made it statutory for organisations with 
250 or more employees to report annually on their gender pay gap. These 
regulations require relevant public organisations to publish their gender pay gap by 
30 March 2018 and then annually, including the: 
·​         ​Mean and median gender pay gaps 
·​         ​Mean and median gender bonus gaps 
·​         ​Proportion of men and women who received bonuses 
·​         ​Proportions of male and female employees in each pay quartile 
The gender pay gap is calculated as the difference between average hourly earnings 
(excluding overtime) of men and women as a proportion of average hourly earnings 
(excluding overtime) of men’s earnings. For example a 20% gender pay gap denotes 
that women earn 20% less, on average, than men. 
The gender pay gap is different to equal pay which deals with the pay differences for 
men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs, or work of equal value. A 
gender pay gap does not necessarily indicate that there is an equal pay issue. 
This report fulfils the College’s reporting requirements and analyses the figures in 
more detail. 
 
Definitions 
Relevant Employees:​ All employees employed by the College on the snapshot date. 
Full-pay relevant employees:​ All employees who were paid their usual full pay for 
March 2017. This means that anyone who is absent on maternity leave, shared 
parental leave, or potentially sick leave will not be included in some of the statistics if 
they received less than full pay during the pay period.  
Pay period:​ This is the period in which employees are paid their basic pay. The 
relevant pay period for this report is the month in which the snapshot dates falls, i.e. 
March 2017. 

Context 
Barton Peveril is a thriving sixth form college with over 3,400 full-time students. The 
College is made up of 11 teaching departments, each led by a Director, and 10 
support departments, each led by a manager. Directors and managers report to one 
of four Vice Principals. The Senior Leadership Team consists of the College 
Principal and the four Vice Principals. The College employs approximately 270 
members of staff in a wide range of roles and working patterns. 
The College employs all its own cleaning and catering staff so these roles, which are 
predominantly occupied by females, are included in Barton Peveril Sixth Form 
College’s Gender Pay Gap figures. This is a less common arrangement than in many 
colleges where these types of work are outsourced and are therefore not included in 
their Gender Pay Gap calculations. This can make a significant difference to the 
calculated figures. 
 
Gender pay gap analysis 
Headline gender pay gap figures 
The following data is our gender pay gap report for the snapshot date of 31 March 
2017. The bonus pay data is based on the bonuses paid to employees in the 12 
months leading up to the snapshot date, i.e. 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 
·​         ​The mean gender pay gap for Barton Peveril is 15.92%. 
·​         ​The median gender pay gap for Barton Peveril is 23.38%. 
·​         ​The mean gender bonus gap for Barton Peveril is 2.23%. 
·​         ​The median gender bonus gap for Barton Peveril is 0%. 
·​         ​The proportion of male employees in the College receiving a bonus is 96.81% 

and the proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 98.17%. 

This data tells is that on average, men are paid 15.92% higher than women and 
receive 2.23% higher bonus payments, using the mean average methodology. To 
understand why this gap exists, we need to look at further information and 
understand the context of the statistics.  
 

 

Proportion of male and female employees in each pay quartile 
The following table show the percentage of male and female employees in each 
quartile, which is the gender split when the hourly rate of pay is ordered from lowest 
to highest and then grouped into 4 equal quartiles. 
 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

19.05% 

80.95% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them at or below the lower quartile 

42.86% 

57.14% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but 
at or below the median 

42.86% 

57.14% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the median but at or 
below the upper quartile 

45.16% 

54.84% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the upper quartile 

 
The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
It is the significantly higher percentage of females in the lowest quartile that 
contributes most to the College’s gender pay gap - this is the band in which the 
cleaning and catering staff roles sit. 
  
Proportion of male and female employees receiving a bonus payment 
The bonuses awarded by the College include: 

● Long service awards 
● Support Staff Standards Payments 
● Christmas vouchers for Catering and Cleaning staff 

Unusually, in the ending 31 March 2017, all staff were awarded a £100 Christmas 
bonus.  
The majority of staff therefore received at least one type of bonus payment, with 
many staff receiving multiple payments/awards in the period in scope. The few staff 
who did not receive a payment were either not eligible under the terms of the bonus 
scheme, or not employed at the point payment was awarded.  

All support staff are eligible to apply for a payment each year known as the ‘Support 
Staff Standards Payment’. The Support Staff Standards Payments are pro-rated in 
accordance with the FTE of each employee. As a result, those working part time or 
term time will receive a lower bonus payment when compared to full time employees. 
At the College, the majority of part time and term time roles tend to be filled by 
women. 
 
What are the underlying causes of the College’s gender pay gap? 
Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 
·​         ​the same or broadly similar work; 
·​         ​work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 
·​         ​work of equal value. 
The College is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil 
partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or 
disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or 
equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). 
The College is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay 
gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation 
and the salaries that these roles attract. 
Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior 
roles (especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more 
likely than men to be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In 
addition, men are more likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which attract 
higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of seniority. Women are also 
more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected their career 
progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part 
time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are 
relatively low paid. 
This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is largely reflected in the make-up of 
the College’s workforce. The majority of front-line student facing roles and cleaning 
and catering roles are held by women.  However, there is an equal balance of males 
and females in the line manager and senior manager roles across the College. 
This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows 
the College's workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay 
rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) 
and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to 
be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in 
each Band. The data for Barton Peveril shows that 80.95% of the employees in Band 
A are women and 19.05% men. The percentage of male employees increases 
throughout the remaining Bands, from 42.86% in Bands B and C to 45.16% in Band 

D. In comparison, the percentage of female employees decreases throughout the 
band, resulting in 54.84% in Band D. 
 
Is there anything the College should be doing to reduce the Gender Pay Gap? 
The College is confident that it does not have an issue with equal pay. The use of 
nationally agreed pay spines ensures that male and female staff are paid the same 
for the same work.  
The College has excellent recruitment practices that help to ensure that there is no 
gender bias in selecting people for interview or in appointing them to posts at the 
college. 
The gender pay gap for support staff only is the biggest of any subset of employees. 
The nationally agreed pay-spine for support staff in sixth form colleges is a very long 
spine and encompasses low level administration roles and high level leadership and 
management roles. The College has considerable flexibility to position support staff 
roles anywhere on this long scale and this could give rise to pay levels being set in a 
way which favours males over females - or vice versa if, for example, roles 
traditionally held by female employees are set at pay rates lower than those posts 
more commonly held by male employees. There is no evidence of this happening but 
the College must be alert to any subconscious bias. The College will continue to 
scrutinise pay scales of support staff roles when they come up for renewal or 
recruitment and will consider market forces alongside the requirements of the role in 
setting the salary. 
 
 

 

Appendix A - Mean and Median by staff type: 
 
It is helpful to analyse the overall data by breaking it down into different types of role 
in the organisation to see where any specific issues may lie. The table below 
provides the whole college (All staff) picture and then a series of subsets of staff. It is 
interesting to note that every subset has a ‘better’ Gender Pay Gap figure than the 
overall College figure - suggesting that the overall gap is predominantly the result of 
the roles that males and females are in, rather than of any unequal pay issues. 
 

  

All staff 

All staff except Cleaning & Catering 

Teaching staff only 

Support staff only 

SLT only (excludes Principal) 

Directors and Managers only 

Cleaning & Catering only 

Mean gender pay 

gap (%) 

Median gender 
pay gap (%) 

15.92 

10.6 

1.15 

14.73 

7.53 

0.42 

-6.47 

23.38 

3.48 

-6.81 

20.22 

7.53 

3.82 

0 

 
 
All staff except Cleaning and Catering 
Many colleges outsource either or both of their catering and cleaning operations - 
and these workers will not therefore appear in their calculations. Barton Peveril 
employs all its own catering and cleaning staff and these roles are both 
predominantly held by females and are the lowest paid in the college. It is therefore 
helpful to see that the picture would be like if they were not in the calculation. The 
mean Gender Pay Gap falls to 10.6% and the median to only 3.48%. This puts the 
College in the same region as a number of other colleges who have declared their 
gender pay gaps as being between 9 and 11%. 
 
Teaching staff only 
The figures for teaching staff only are, unsurprisingly, much smaller - indeed the 
median figure is -6.81%, denoting female teachers being paid more the male 
teachers on average. This will be down to the percentage of teachers on the different 
points on the national pay spine. Appendix B shows the spread of male and female 
teachers across the different pay spine points - 50 % more female than male 
teachers on the top spine point.  

Support staff only 
The Gender Pay Gap of just support staff shows the largest gap of all the subsets we 
are looking at. The support staff subset contains a very wide range of different jobs 
at different scales from the lowest paid administration roles to support staff 
managers at the highest end. In line with the national picture a range of the lower 
paid jobs are part-time and/or term-time only and these are mostly held by female 
employees. This will contribute to the larger gender pay gap here. 
 
SLT only 
The Senior Leadership Team (SLT) only group does not include the Principal - just 
the four other members of the team. The 7.53% gap reported here is misleading. 
The team consists of 2 male and 2 female members and the underlying pay gap is 
actually 0%. However, at the snap-shot date for this calculation one female member 
of the team was on maternity leave and this has lead to the gap being reported. 
 
Directors and Managers only 
This subset includes both the Directors of Curriculum and the Support Staff 
Managers. Appendix C shows the male/female split across these groups. It is good 
to note that across these groups (and SLT) there is an equal number of male and 
female workers. With a small gender pay gap as well of just 0.42%, leadership and 
management is clearly an area where there is no issue with a gender pay gap 
inequality. 
 
Cleaning and Catering only 
For completeness, the gender pay gap for the subset of cleaning and catering staff is 
provided. Amongst these roles at the lowest end of the pay scales it is the female 
staff who are paid, on average more than the male staff - by 6.4%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Appendix B - Number and % of Male/Female Teaching staff by spine point as at 
31/03/2017 
 
All teachers are paid on the same, nationally agreed Sixth Form College Association 
pay spine. There are nine points and teachers move up one point each year 
assuming a successful annual appraisal. 
 

Spine 
point 

% Male 

% Female 

Number of 
teachers 

% of total number 

of teachers 

Number of 
teachers 

% of total number 

of teachers 

1 

0 

2 

1 

1 

4 

4 

8 

28 

51 

0.8% 

0.0% 

1.6% 

0.8% 

0.8% 

3.2% 

3.2% 

6.4% 

22.6% 

41.1% 

1 

1 

3 

2 

4 

3 

9 

7 

43 

73 

0.8% 

0.8% 

2.4% 

1.6% 

3.2% 

2.4% 

7.3% 

5.6% 

34.7% 

58.9% 

 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Total 

 
 
 

 

Appendix C - Number of males/females by staff type (Full-pay relevant 
employees) 
 
It is useful to see the number of male and female employees in each of a number of 
categories of role. This provides additional context when considering the balance of 
male/female employees against the gender pay information. 
 

Staff type 

SLT (excluding the Principal) 

Teaching 

Support 

Directors 

Support Managers 

Cleaning 

Catering 

TOTAL 

 

Male 

2 

58 

27 

5 

5 

5 

1 

103 

Female 

2 

79 

49 

6 

4 

12 

15 

167 

