 

Pax Christi Catholic Academy Trust 

Gender Pay Gap Report – March 2017 

Introduction 
This report contains the Pax Christi Catholic Academy Trust’s standard disclosure of the gender pay 
gap for the multi-academy trust. 

All companies with 250 or more employees are now required to publish their gender pay gap under 
new legislation that came into force in April 2017.  Employers have to publish the gap in pay 
between men and women on both a median basis (pay per hour based on the person “in the 
middle” of the distribution of pay) and a mean (average hourly salary).  In addition, employers are 
required to disclose the distribution of gender by pay quartile – in other words splitting the workface 
into four groups based on their pay, and showing the proportion of men and women in each group.  
Employers are also required to disclose percentages of staff receiving bonuses by gender and the 
gender pay gap on bonuses. 

The PCCAT welcomes and supports gender pay gap reporting, albeit not immune to broader societal 
issues affecting women in the workforce. 

This report provides both the statutory disclosures required, as well as further context around 
gender pay and the Trust. 

Context 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the hourly rate of pay of male employees and female 
employees (as set out in the regulations) expressed as a percentage of the hourly rate of pay of the 
male employees.  The gender pay gap is reported on both a mean (average) and median (mid-point) 
basis. 

Nationally, the gender pay gap is 18.4% (Office of National Statistics (ONS) 2017).  Nationally, one of 
the main reasons for the gender pay gap is more men are likely to hold senior positions.  This is not 
the case with PCCAT which has a significantly higher proportion of women in the upper quartile of 
pay. 

Differentials in gender pay across the workforce are not the same as ensuring equal pay.  UK law has, 
since the 1970s, prohibited paying different amounts to men and women who are doing ‘like work’, 
‘work of equal value’ or ‘work rated as equivalent’ unless there is a ‘genuine material factor’, for the 
difference. 

Gender at the Pax Christi Catholic Academy Trust (Snapshot as at 31/03/2017) 
Overall the Trust has an 84.9% female and 15.1% male workforce.  The percentage of female 
members of staff is higher at the lower grades of the organisation, with increasing percentages of 
men at higher grades.  Within the lowest quartile of our pay grades, the Trust has a 94.8% female / 
5.2% male mix.  As we move to the highest quartile this changes to 77.6% female / 22.4% male. 

The overall gender pay gap as at 31 March 2017 is 48.3% on a median basis, compared to the UK 
median, which is reported by the ONS as 18.4%. 

 

 

We have a higher proportion of females in every quartile, including the upper quartile, where 77.6% 
of our staff are female.  This illustrates that the overall pay gap is a result of the low proportion of 
males in the more junior grades. 

We use pay scales for all teaching staff that are aligned to the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions 
Document, which is reviewed on an annual basis.  For support staff, we use pay scales set by the NJC 
(National Joint Council for Local Government Services).  Staff move through the pay scales for their 
grade based on a thorough and robust performance management process, meaning earnings are 
based on performance outcomes, irrespective of their gender. 

Statutory Disclosures 
The tables below show the overall median and mean gender pay gap and other data required by 
statute, based on the hourly rates of pay to those employed on the snapshot day of 31st March 2017. 

As explained above, the analysis of our gender pay gap data shows that almost the entirety of the 
gap has arisen because we have a relatively higher proportion of women in support roles.  We have 
analysed the data and looked at the figures for teaching and support staff separately – see table 
below the pay gap reduces significantly when split into groups with the same pay and grading 
systems.  No bonuses are paid to any category of staff. 

Although we have a majority of females in the lower pay grades, we also have a majority of females 
in the upper pay grades.  In the upper quartile of pay, 60% of teaching staff are female and 82.5% of 
support staff are female.  This demonstrates that across the categories of staff, the majority of 
senior roles are held by females. 

Lower 
Quartile 

Middle 
Lower 
Quartile 

Middle 
Upper 
Quartile 

Upper 
Quartile 

94.8% 
female 
5.2% male 

82.8% 
female 
17.2% male 

88.0 % 
female 
12.0% 
male 
94.1% 
female 
5.9% male 

87.5% 
female 
12.5% male 

93.9% 
female 6.1% 
male 

84.5% 
female 
15.5% 
male 
87.5% 
female 
12.5% 
male 
81.8% 
female 
18.2% 
male 

77.6% 
female 
22.4% 
male 
60% 
female 
40% male 

82.4 % 
female 
17.6% 
male 

 

 

Mean Pay 
Gap (% 
lower for 
females) 

Whole Trust 

26.4 

Median 
Pay Gap 
(% lower 
for 
females) 
42.8 

Teaching Staff 

17.9 

13.4 

Support Staff 

7.72 

15.0 

 

Caroline Anderson 
Trust Operations Director 
March 2018 

 

