2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING 

Spicerhaart believe that there are job opportunities for everyone regardless of 
gender.
Spicerhaart aim to recruit and maintain a gender balanced workforce, to accurately 
reflect the customers and communities we serve to ensure that our employees can be 
themselves in the workplace and be in an expert in the geographical area. 

Spicerhaart are committed to supporting women in the workplace and addressing 
gender representation.

The Gender pay gap and how it is calculated  
The median gender pay gap compares the pay (all pay including commission) of females 
in the middle of the pay scale (lowest to highest) and the pay of the males in the middle 
of the pay scale.  

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in the hourly rate of pay between men 
and women in a company. This is different from equal pay which looks at pay differences 
in men and women carrying out the same role.

Our mean (average) gender pay gap is 17.1%.
Our median (middle) gender pay gap is 8.4% which is lower than the national average at 
18.1%. This is the difference in the median hourly rate of pay for full time male relevant 
employees and that of female relevant employees.

Mean Bonus Gap 
This is the difference between the mean bonus paid to male employees and of that paid 
to female employees. Spicerhaart’s mean bonus gap is 30.4%.
Median Bonus Pay Gap 
This is the difference between the median bonus paid to male employees and that paid 
to female employees. Spicerhaart’s median bonus gap is 45.4%.
Proportion of Employees receiving a 2016 bonus (including commission) 
Male 92.3%  

 Female 86.3%

*Gender Pay Gap Report – as of 05/04/2017

QUARTILE PAY BANDS 

The proportion of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the lower, lower middle, 
upper middle and upper quartile pay bands

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Male 47%

Female 53%

Male 48%

Female 52%

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

Male 50%

Female 50%

Male 61%

Female 39%

