       EN  日本語   Search   Investors  Investigators  Contact Us     Services     Adaptive Trials  Biosimilars  Consulting  Medical Imaging  Laboratories  Medical Devices  Preclinical/Phase l  Site and Patient Recruitment    Government & Public Health Solutions  Serving US Federal and NGO clients.   Clinical Research Services  Integrated services that cover planning, management, execution and analysis.   Commercialisation & Outcomes  Insight on strategies and execution for long-term value to maximise success.     Therapeutics     Internal Medicine  Infectious Diseases  Gastrointestinal  Women’s Health  Rare & Orphan Diseases    Oncology  Global experience in all Phases of oncology drug development.   Central Nervous System  Offering solutions that combine in-house expertise and proprietary innovative technology.   Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disorders  Experience in cardiovascular trials supported by a global team of experts.     Innovation     ICONIK  ADDPLAN®  FLEX ADVANTAGE™  Imaging Technology  NONMEM®  PDx-POP®  IMRA™  PubsHub™    ICON and IBM Watson  ICON and IBM are working together to revolutionise clinical trial feasibility and patient recruitment.   FIRECREST  Digital solutions that increase efficiency in clinical trials by driving site performance.   ADDPLAN®  Using data to design, simulate, and analyse adaptive clinical trials with ease.     Insights     ICH GCP Guidelines (R2)  BYOD in Clinical Trials  Videos  Blog   Featured Blogs:   The Power of AI to Transform Clinical Trials  CDSIC Standards Implementation    Transforming Trials  The traditional clinical development model needs to change.   Adaptive Trials  Understand and successfully address the complexities of adaptive trial design.   Wearables  Remote monitoring and leveraging wearable devices and sensors in clinical trials.     News & Events     Awards  All Events  Webinars  Latest News   Featured News:   Integration of Intel® Pharma Analytics Platform for Clinical Trials  ICON Wins Best CRO Award at the Scrip Awards    The MedTech Summit  17 - 19 April, 2018 MedTech Strategist Innovation Summit   NASH Summit  23 - 25 April, 2018 Discover best practices for approaching challenges in NASH trial development   World Orphan Drug Conference  25 - 27 April, 2018 Focusing on bringing rare disease therapies to patients faster     About    History  From a small team of 5 people in 1990, ICON now employs over 13,250 professionals in 38 countries.   Quality  We are committed to exceeding the quality standards demanded by our clients, patients and regulatory authorities.   ICON and You  Partners Making a Difference.   Leadership  ICON has assembled a leadership team with extensive industry experience.     Careers     News  Events  Mediakit  Media Articles  Video  Awards     Home ›  News & Events ›  News ›  ICON UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    ICON UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017     Read the report .      Contact  About ICON  Results & Reports    for Clients   Therapeutics  Services  Insights  Innovation    ICON for   Investigators  Media  Volunteers  Investors  Jobs & Careers    News & Events   Press Releases  Events  ICON on Social Media     © 2018 ICON plc.  Sitemap  Disclaimer  Privacy    LinkedIn  Twitter  Facebook  Youtube    