 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Perenco UK Ltd 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report  
PERENCO UK LTD 

 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Perenco UK Ltd is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company, specialising in operating 
and developing mature and marginal fields. Perenco entered the oil and gas market in the UK in 2003 and its 
growth to-date is largely as a result of acquisitions aligned to the above strategy. As of April 2017 73% of the 
workforce are direct recruits, with a further 27% transferred through acquisition. 
 
Perenco UK Ltd are committed to ensuring male and female employees are paid fairly and equally, and that the 
distribution of performance related bonuses are aligned to individual accountability and delivery against 
business objectives. 
 
The results produced within this report although high, are indicative of an under-representation of women 
across the energy (and more specifically oil and gas) sector and not a disparity in the treatment of men and 
women in comparable roles. Women represent 10.7% of staff (at the snapshot date of April 2017), therefore 
the results contained within this report reflect these demographics. 
 
Perenco UK Ltd is active, through a number of local academic institutions, in promoting STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Maths) subjects, in an effort to broaden and challenge perspectives regarding 
careers in this sector. Active apprentice and graduate programmes are also in-place, to identify and recruit 
future leaders. We hope that through these processes we can encourage more women to consider a career in 
our industry and over-time, reduce our gender pay gap. 

‘Mean’ & ‘Median’ 
The mean pay gap is the difference between 
average hourly earnings of men and women. The 
median pay gap is the difference between the 
midpoints in the ranges of hourly earnings of men 
and women, when listed in ascending order.  

 
 
TERMINOLOGY 
 
‘Gender Pay Gap’ 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the 
average* hourly rate of pay of male and female 
employees (as set out in the regulations), 
expressed as a percentage of the hourly pay rate of 
the male employees.  
 
*The gender pay gap is reported on both a mean (average) and median (mid-point on a distribution) basis. 
 
‘Gender Pay Gap’ vs ‘Equal Pay’ 
The gender pay gap differs from equal pay. Equal pay deals with the pay differences between males and 
females who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs, or work of equal value. The gender pay gap illustrates the 
differences in the average pay between male and female employees. A high gender pay gap does not mean 
male and female employees are not paid equally or fairly when undertaking comparable roles, however it can 
be a sign of under-representation of female employees in the workplace.
 
 
OUR GENDER PAY GAP 
 
The figures provided throughout this report are a true and accurate representation of the above population, at 
the time of the data being extracted (April 2017).  
 
 
 

PAGE 2 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report  
PERENCO UK LTD 

 

 

 

(RIGHT) 

The bonus gender pay gap is defined as 
the difference between the mean or 
median bonuses paid to relevant 
employees in the 12 months preceding 
April 2017. Relevant employees include 
those on reduced pay and for the 
purposes of this report, consider only 
directly-employed staff of Perenco UK 
Ltd. 

 

 
(LEFT) 
 
The gender pay gap is defined as the 
difference between the mean or 
median hourly rate of pay that male 
and female full-time relevant 
employees receive. Full-time relevant 
employees exclude those on reduced 
pay and for the purposes of this report, 
consider only directly-employed staff 
of Perenco UK Ltd. 

 

(LEFT)  
 
Proportion of male and female employees 
that received a bonus (performance related) 
in the 12 months preceding April 2017. 
Perenco UK operate a discretionary, 
performance-related bonus scheme. All 
employees are eligible under this scheme 
and awards vary based on both individual 
and organisational performance.  

 
(LEFT) 
 
Proportion of male 
and female 
colleagues in each 
pay quartile. 

This chart shows 
the gender split 
when we order 
hourly rate of pay 
from highest to 
lowest and group 
into four equal 
quartiles. 

PAGE 3 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report  
PERENCO UK LTD 

 
 
RESULTS SUMMARY 
 
The results shown throughout this report are broadly in-line with expectations. Perenco UK Ltd operates in a 
sector reliant on engineering and technical expertise in STEM subjects. The UK (nationally) suffers from a lower 
uptake of these subjects, between women and men, throughout academia. As an organisation that heavily 
relies on the progression of such individuals to fill key senior operational and management positions, this 
underrepresentation of women manifests itself in the results we see in this report. 
 
The majority of our business consists of hands-on operational roles, supported by highly skilled technical 
engineering support. In these areas we can see the under-representation of women and this is something we 
will be looking to address, through our various routes of entry into the organisation. These include apprentice 
and graduate opportunities, as well as more experienced applicants. 
 
Whilst our aspiration is to achieve a greater balance, we are pragmatic and understand that a solution to this 
issue is broader than our business’s reach and will take time to realise. 
 

 

 
 
Laurent Combe 
Perenco UK-SNS General Manager 
Perenco UK Ltd Director 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The data produced within this report is accurate as of April 2017 and has been produced in accordance with the regulations 
governing gender pay gap reporting. We have excluded those people for whom the data required to calculate the gender 
pay gap is not readily available. This group includes individuals who are not on staff contracts, such as those providing 
services through limited liability organisations and ad-hoc contractors.  

PAGE 4 

