Gender Pay Gap Report 
2017 

Purpose and executive summary

From April 2017 under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017 employers with 250 or more employees are required to publish statutory 
gender pay gap calculations every year. 

The data must be a snapshot of salary data on 31 March 2017 and must be published on our 
own website and a government website by 30 March 2018.  This report sets out the figures we 
will publish with an analysis of the information. 

An overview of our data shows that although there were more men than women in 
Teignbridge District Council on the snapshot date, there were more women in the higher 
quartiles and more men in the lower quartile.  

This reflects a negative report which indicates a higher mean (8.2%) and higher median (7.5%) 
for women. It also reflects that Teignbridge District Council was one of the organisations that 
was represented differently to the national average, with a greater gender equality on 31 March 
2017. 

Introduction and background

The purpose of gender pay gap reporting is to achieve greater gender equality across the UK 
and increase pay transparency.  It has been estimated that the under-utilisation of women’s 
skills costs the UK economy 1.3 - 2% of GDP annually,  and that eradicating the full-time 
gender pay gap would contribute additional spending into the economy of £41b each year. 

In 2016 the national gender pay gap for full-time employees was 9.4%, meaning that average pay 
for full-time female employees was 9.4% lower than for full-time male employees.  The gap was 
down from 17.4% in 1997. The gap for all employees, full and part-time was 18.1% down from 
27.5% in 1997. 

The government considers that this rate of progress is too slow, and has committed to closing 
the gender pay gap within a generation.

2

Information required for 
publication

Mean gender pay gap

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male 
full-pay relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant 
employees

Median gender pay gap The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male 
full-pay relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant 
employees

Quartile pay bands

The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant 
employees in the lower, lower middle, upper middle and 
upper quartile pay bands

Mean bonus gap

The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to 
male relevant employees and that paid to female relevant 
employees

Median bonus gap

The difference between the median bonus pay paid to 
male relevant employees and that paid to female relevant 
employees

Bonus proportions

The proportions of male and female relevant employees who 
were paid bonus pay during the relevant period

3

Teignbridge District Council 
data

Workforce breakdown

Our data shows that Teignbridge District Council employed 504 full pay relevant employees on 
31 March 2017, 272 men and 232 women.

Men: 54%

Women: 46%

4

Gender pay gap 2017

Based on the required criteria, calculation of the data shows that the men’s mean pay on 31 
March 2017, was £11.39 per hour, whereas, women’s mean pay was £12.32 per hour.  This 
reported a difference of -8.16% for women.

Men’s median pay was  £9.62 per hour, women’s median pay was £10.34 per hour.  This 
reported a difference of -7.48% for women. 

A minus calculation indicates that women earned more than men 
in the organisation. 

Women’s hourly rate

Mean

£11.39

£12.32

-8.2%

Median

£9.62

£10.34

-7.5%

To help to understand these findings, analysis of the pay quartiles show the distribution of men 
and women in an organisation.  The following data shows how the women’s hourly rate was 
subsequently higher in Teignbridge District Council on 31 March 2017. 

5

Pay quartiles

Analysis of the quartiles identifies that although there are more men (54%) than women (46%) 
in the district council on 31 March 2017, the highest proportion of men (77.8%) is in the lower 
quartile.  The other three quartiles each have more female than male employees. 

Top quartile
Men: 48.4 %
Women: 51.6%

Upper middle quartile

Men: 47.6 %
Women: 52.4%

Lower middle quartile

Men: 42.1%
Women: 57.9%

Lower quartile

Men: 77.8%
Women: 22.2%

6

Bonus pay

Teignbridge District Council does not pay bonus pay to any employees.  Therefore the bonus 
pay reporting percentages are 0%.

Women’s bonus pay

Mean

Median

0%

Who received bonus pay?

Men

Women

0%

0%

0%

7

Sector comparisons

Analysis of the gender pay gap service.gov.uk site on 6 February 2018 identified that 33 other 
councils had already uploaded their gender pay gap reporting.  Some, but not all, had a link to 
their website. Of these 7 reported higher figures for women, 5 of these being district councils.  

Interesting comparisons are that 3 district councils have similar mean percentages and 2 have 
similar median percentages to Teignbridge District Council.  A borough council had very similar 
male and female percentages across all quartiles.  

As this is the first year of required reporting, it will be useful to compare percentages over 
time bearing in mind our quartiles, and therefore our mean and median data will all change 
year on year.  

8

Findings, conclusions and 
action plan

Our mean, median and quartile findings are very positive, reflecting a balanced report between 
our male and female workforce and our corresponding male and female data.  This is a finding 
to celebrate and to be proud of in Teignbridge District Council in relation to the national 
average.

It is assumed that the findings of this report reflects a robust job evaluation process that 
focuses on the role and not individuals.  It also reflects on our focus on a strong employer 
brand of flexible working in all levels of the council.  As an action plan this will be reviewed, 
monitored and reported on in later reports as there may be some areas with less flexibility 
and greater attrition. In comparison, some organisations do not have a flexible working and 
inclusive approach in senior levels, this would create an exclusive environment for those 
needing flexibility.  We will continue to monitor this. 

It can also be assumed that there are strong links between our talent retention and lower than 
average attrition rates.  Our results, reflect highly on our employer brand, and will support our 
focus of talent attraction and being an employer of choice.  An action plan is to monitor, review 
and report on these links in later gender pay gap reports. 

This process has highlighted some very good practices in other councils across the sector, 
we are always keen to learn from other organisations and integrate positive change into our 
practices. Examples include creating a transparency policy and sharing the equality and diversity 
strategy with broader annual reporting. 

During the year 2017 – 2018 some changes have happened in the council which may see a 
different snapshot for 31 March 2018.  

9

Teignbridge District Council, Forde House, Newton Abbot, TQ12 4XX

www.teignbridge.gov.uk

