       Skip to navigation  Skip to content  Go to homepage         Sense Scotland, Working with deafblind and disabled people    sitemap Staff Homepage Privacy Statement        Further viewing options    Contact us on 0300 330 9292  Contact and Enquire    Keep me informed:  Newsletter sign up    Donate Now     Site search  Search the site        What we do Who we are Support Latest News My Sense Scotland Outdoor Activities One Giant Leap Partners in Communication TouchBase Comments Compliments and Complaints Fundraising Charity Shops Get Involved Trusts Fundraising Events Sense Scotland Shop What Can I Do To Help? We Care About You TouchBases Appeal Arts What we do Who We Are My Art Session Events & Exhibitions Arts and communication course Blantyre Short Breaks' garden project Jobs Business Centre Our rooms & venues Cafe & Catering Business Networking Social Contribution Access for all FAQ Contact Location & Directions Special Offers Resources Public Policy Strategic Plan Publications    Home Resources Publications Gender Equality Statement            Sense Scotland and the gender pay gap   Results     Women's mean hourly rate is 3.1% lower than men's.  In other words when comparing mean hourly rates, women earn 97p
for every £1 that men earn.  Women's median hourly rate is 0% lower than men's.  In other words when comparing median hourly rates, women earn the
same as men.     Sense Scotland is committed to eliminating discrimination and
encouraging equality and diversity in our workforce. This approach
is grounded in a fundamental commitment to human rights, and made
explicit in an organisational policy, which includes an assurance
of equality and fairness in respect of gender.  Sense Scotland does not discriminate on grounds of gender, and
complies in full with the Equality Act 2010. Our organisational
values stress the importance of recognising individual worth, and
make no distinction based on gender.  All Sense Scotland employees are remunerated according to set
pay scales, regularly reviewed and agreed by employee
representatives through our Partnership Forum and single union
recognition agreement with Unite the Union. This ensures all
employees are paid the same rate for the job regardless of gender
(or any other difference). Men and women enjoy equal pay.  Our workforce is predominantly female (74%) and includes a large
proportion of part time employees - those contracted to work fewer
than 37 hours per week (60%). These factors impact on comparative
pay levels. Women represent a majority of our employees at all
levels up to our Leadership Team.  We are delighted to report that we have no median gender pay
gap, and a very small mean gender pay gap of 3.1%.  Sense Scotland will strive to reduce and ultimately eliminate
our mean gender pay gap, and will report progress annually in line
with our legal obligations.  https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-gender-pay-gap       Resources  Public Policy Strategic Plan Publications Branching Out Annual Review Loud and Clear Leaflets Gender Equality Statement       Sense S cotland is a company limited by
guarantee, registered in Scotland Number 147570, and a registered
Scottish charity, number SC 022097. Head office:
TouchBase, 43 Middlesex Street, Glasgow G41 1EE +44 (0) 300 330
9292 (tel) +44 (0) 141 429 0295 (fax) +44 (0) 141 418 7170 (text) info@sensescotland.org.uk  Date Last Modified: 04/04/2018.
                        Comments to: webmaster [at] sensescotland [dot] org [dot] uk  Web design by Innovation Digital               