2017

Report

Apache North Sea 
Production Limited 
pursuant to 
Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Information) 
Regulations 2017

About Apache

Apache North Sea Production Limited (Apache North Sea) is an indirect wholly owned 
subsidiary of Apache Corporation, an oil and gas exploration and production company with 
operations in the United States, Egypt and the United Kingdom. Apache entered the North Sea 
in 2003 after acquiring an approximate 97-percent working interest in the Forties Field. Since 
then, Apache has invested more than USD$12 billion in the North Sea.

In 2011, Apache acquired Mobil North Sea Limited, providing the region with additional 
exploration and development opportunities across numerous fields, including operated interests 
in the Beryl, Nevis, Nevis South, Skene and Buckland fields, and nonoperated interests in 
the Maclure field. Apache North Sea plays a strategic role in Apache’s portfolio by providing 
competitive investment opportunities and potential reserve upside with high-impact exploration 
potential.

Our employees represent a dynamic diversity of races, religions and cultures, reflecting the 
communities in which we operate. This diverse workforce provides us with a competitive 
advantage by ensuring we have a full range of ideas, viewpoints and approaches to solving 
business challenges.

Apache North Sea

Apache North Sea invests in our greatest asset, our people, by providing exciting and 
challenging careers and premier compensation and benefits. As a team of teams, we expect 
top performance and innovation and seek relentless improvement in all facets. We provide 
equal pay for equal work, with a pay for performance compensation philosophy that is fair 
and achievement oriented. All of our employees are eligible to apply for flexible working 
arrangements designed to encourage employees with caring responsibilities to remain in 
the workplace.

Apache North Sea provides equal pay for 
equal work and would do so regardless 
of any legislative requirement. 

    2

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORTNew Gender Pay Gap Legislation

All UK employers with 250+ employees must publish gender pay gap figures under new 
legislation. For purposes of the new legislation, a gender pay gap is the difference between the 
average male’s hourly pay against the average female’s hourly pay in an organisation without 
reference to role, post or responsibilities. In other words, to determine gender pay gap, all jobs 
are rolled up in the aggregate so that male and female average hourly pay can be calculated in 
the aggregate. 

In the UK oil and gas industry and in numerous other industries and organisations, a gender 
pay gap exists as defined in the new legislation. The UK government has committed to reducing 
the gender pay gap within a generation as it estimates that bridging the gap will add £150 
billion to the UK economy by 2025. The government has compelled employers to play a part in 
achieving this in the belief that bridging the gender pay gap at the workplace level will help to 
narrow the overall gap at the national level.

The new legislation also requires employers to establish whether there is a difference between 
the average bonuses paid to males and females as well as distribution over pay quartiles by 
gender.

Gender Pay Gap versus 
Equal Pay for Equal Work

Gender pay gap under the new legislation is quite different from the concept of equal pay for 
equal work. Equal pay legislation has been in place since 1970, requiring employers to provide 
the same rewards to male and female workers for equal work (or work of equal value). A 
gender pay gap under the new legislation does not imply an equal pay problem under the 1970s 
legislation.

Apache North Sea provides equal pay for equal work and would do so regardless of any 
legislative requirement. The company is committed to ensuring equal pay for equal work.

    3

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORTDemographics
North Sea oil and gas industry demographics 
In the North Sea and global oil and gas industry:

 ∂ The workforce is predominantly male.
 ∂ There is a prevalence of males in the technical roles that typically attract relatively higher 
rewards. Females make up 24 percent of the UK science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) workforce, but hold only 14 percent of the STEM roles in the mining, 
energy, water, electricity, gas and air supply group of industries. And because many senior 
management positions relate to the STEM disciplines, the proportion of males in senior 
management positions is higher than females. 
 ∂ The offshore workforce, which is heavily male dominated, attracts additional premiums and 
allowances compared with onshore based work due to the nature of the work, including the 
time away from home and family. 
 ∂ A greater proportion of females perform support roles than the higher compensated STEM 
and offshore jobs. 
 ∂ Females also hold the majority of part-time positions, impacting on the gap between the 
genders in average bonuses which are typically based on a percentage of earnings.

Apache North Sea demographics
On the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, Apache North Sea’s workforce of relevant employees 
consisted of 587 full-time employees, with 40 percent working onshore and 60 percent working 
offshore. With respect to gender representation in 2017, females accounted for:
 ∂ 12 percent of the total workforce, including 29 percent of the onshore workforce and less 
than 1 percent of the offshore workforce
 ∂ 15 percent of the technical professional roles, which exceeds the female representation in the 
industry’s STEM workforce at large (14 percent female)
 ∂ 55 percent of the professional support roles 
 ∂ 14 percent of the leadership posts, although female representation in senior leadership posts 
has increased to 21 percent since the start of 2018

    4

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORT91%
Proportion 
of females 
receiving bonus

89 %
Proportion 
of males 
receiving bonus

Proportionately, more 
females (91.14 percent) 
than males (89.46 percent) 
received a bonus in 2017.

Apache North Sea gender pay

With respect to gender pay gap as defined in the new legislation, for Apache North Sea as of 
5 April 2017:
The gender pay gap data is comprised of base salary, regular allowances and shift premium 
payments. Overtime payments are excluded from the calculations as per the regulations. Pay is 
calculated on an hourly basis as the regulations take account of the fact that more men than 
women work full time. Bonus pay is comprised of 2017 paid incentive compensation bonus, 
plus any ad hoc bonus payments and the gross value of equity vested over the 12 month period 
to 5 April 2017.

The mean bonus gender pay gap is 28.79 percent, and the median bonus gender pay gap is 
24.20 percent. The mean gender pay gap is 37.73 percent, and the median gender pay gap is 
39.19 percent. Proportionately, females accounted for 37.59 percent of the lower pay quartile, 
4.76 percent of the lower middle pay quartile, 2.74 percent of the upper middle pay quartile 
and 3.40 percent of the upper pay quartile.

    5

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORTBridging the Gap 

While Apache North Sea will continue to provide equal pay for equal work, we are undertaking 
a variety of initiatives to do our part in bridging the gender pay gap in the UK as defined in the 
new legislation. 

 ∂ Females have accounted for more than 44 percent of Apache North Sea’s engineering and 
geoscience graduate hires in the North Sea region since 2010. This contrasts with the fact 
that only 15 percent of engineering undergraduates in the UK in 2017 were female. 
 ∂ Apache North Sea is committed to promoting talented females in technical positions. In the 
past 12 months, 4.2 percent of the female workforce were promoted compared with 2.9 
percent of males.

4.2%
Proportion 
of females 
promoted

2.9 %
Proportion 
of males 
promoted

In the past 12 months, 
4.2 percent of the 
female workforce were 
promoted compared with 
2.9 percent of males.

 ∂ We are doing our part to influence the choices made by young people which will shape 
their future STEM careers. We continue to participate in opportunities to promote exciting 
and challenging STEM careers to school pupils and students through outreach programmes, 
partnerships with local council Work Experience Coordinators and offering meaningful 
internships providing developmental experiences. For example, over the past nine years, 
Apache North Sea has provided financial support to TechFest, an innovative charity which 
provides quality STEM events and promotion to young people and the wider community 
throughout Scotland. The support provided by Apache North Sea has enabled TechFest’s 
annual STEM festival to include an early years and primary age outreach programme.
 ∂ We are encouraging women to remain in the workplace through family friendly HR policies 
and practices. Apache North Sea is committed to continuing to provide flexible working 
patterns, when possible, in order for employees to balance their careers and caring 
responsibilities. These efforts have been successful, as more than 77 percent of female staff 
who have had maternity leave since 2011 have returned to work thereafter.
 ∂ Since the start of 2018, two additional female managers have been appointed to the senior 
leadership team, which demonstrates the equality of opportunity for the best candidates.

44 %

More 
than
Apache 
North Sea’s 
engineering 
and geoscience 
female graduate 
hires since 2010 

    6

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORTDeclaration

Apache North Sea is an exciting and challenging place to work, with premier compensation 
and benefits. We provide equal pay for equal work and, as we have shown, we are determined 
to continue to advance women in the oil and gas industry through STEM careers, promotion to 
leadership roles and flexible working arrangements.

We confirm that the Apache North Sea gender pay gap calculations are accurate 
and meet the requirements of the regulations.

JON GRAHAM
Managing Director

Apache North Sea Production Limited

KAREN WILLIAMSON

Senior Manager Human Resources
Apache North Sea Production Limited

    7

APACHE NORTH SEA PRODUCTION LIMITED 2017 GENDER PAY REPORT