 

TO: 

READING BOROUGH COUNCIL 

REPORT BY HEAD OF LEGAL & DEMOCRATIC SERVICES 

 
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE 

15 MARCH 2018 
GENDER PAY GAP 

DATE: 
TITLE: 
LEAD 
COUNCILLOR: 
SERVICE: 
LEAD OFFICER:  ROGER MORRIS 
WARREN KING 
HR PARTNER 
INTERIM HR AND 
PAYROLL MANAGER 

JOB TITLE: 
 

CLLR LOVELOCK 

HR 

AGENDA ITEM: 

6 

PORTFOLIO: 

 

WARDS: 

BOROUGHWIDE 

TEL: 

Ext: 72348  

E-MAIL 

Roger.morris@reading.gov.uk 

1.  PURPOSE AND SUMMARY OF REPORT 

1.1. 

1.2. 

1.3. 

From April 2017 under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public 
Authorities)  Regulations  2017  employers  with  250  or  more  employees 
are  required  to  publish  statutory  gender  pay  gap  calculations  every 
year.  

To  make  the  calculations,  specific  data  must  be  gathered  from  the 
Council’s payroll from a specific date each year. This specific date is 
called  the  ‘snapshot  date’,  which  is  31  March  for  public  sector 
organisations. 

The  calculations  must  be  published  on  our  own  website  and  a 
government website. This report sets out the figures that will need to 
be published with an analysis of the information by 30 March 2018.  

RECOMMENDED ACTION 
 
That you note the report and agree to its recommendations and publication. 

 

2.  Introduction and Background 

2.1. 

The information that is required for publication is: 

Mean gender pay gap 

The difference between the mean hourly rate of 
pay of male full-pay relevant employees (FPREs) 

 

 

Median gender pay gap 

Mean Bonus Gap 

Median gender pay gap 

Bonus proportions 

Quartile pay bands 

and that of female full-pay relevant employees. 

The difference between the median hourly rate of 
pay of male full-pay relevant employees and that of 
female full-pay relevant employees. 

The difference between the mean bonus pay paid 
to male relevant employees and that paid to female 
relevant employees. 

The difference between the median bonus pay paid 
to male relevant employees and that paid to female 
relevant employees. 

The proportions of male and female relevant 
employees who were paid bonus pay during the 
relevant period. 

The proportions of male and female full-pay 
relevant employees in the lower, lower middle, 
upper middle and upper quartile pay bands. 

  

2.2. 

2.3. 

2.4. 

For  the  purpose  of  this  report,  the  workforce  profile  as  at  the 
“snapshot date”, 31 March 2017, were 2513 FPREs, which is made up 
by  1653  females  and  860  males.  Out  of  the  2513  FPREs,  four  are 
covered by TUPE regulations (three are females and one is male).  

In accordance with Government’s guidance, data of school staff is not 
included in this report.  

The  figures  have  been  calculated  for  this  report  in  accordance  with 
Government’s  guidance  by  the  Data  Team  in  Payroll.  The  highlighted 
figures in each table are those that will require publication. 

 

Mean Hourly Rate 

Median Hourly Rate 

Male 

14.49 

13.32 

Table 1 - Mean and median gender pay gap 

 

Mean amount of bonus 
Median amount of 
bonus 

Male 

626.38 

573.00 

Female 

14.17 

12.81 

Female 

798.30 

Female’s 

earnings are: 
2.21% lower 

3.83% lower 

Female’s 

bonuses are: 
27.45% higher 

1,000.00 

74.52% higher 

 

 

Table 2 – Mean and Median gender pay gap in bonus payments 

 

FPREs Total 
Proportion of Receiving a 
bonus 

Male 

860 

Female 

1653 

16 

1.86% 

30 

1.81% 

Table 3 - Proportion of males and females who received a bonus 

3.  Analysis 

3.1. 

3.2. 

3.3. 

Table  1  shows  that  the  Council’s  mean  (2.21%)  and  median  (3.83%) 
gender pay gap compares favourably with the national average gender 
pay gap figure, 18.1%1. 

Tables  2  &  3  reflect  a  small  group  of  employees  who  received  their 
“bonuses” in the relevant period. The Council does not have provision 
for  the  payment  of  bonuses  within  its  own  terms  and  conditions. 
However, long service awards are in the form of money which meet the 
definition of “bonus” for this report. 

Long  service  awards  are  recognition  of  achieving  20  years  continuous 
service.  The  Council  is  currently  running  two  long  service  award 
schemes with varying cash values: 

• 

• 

A one-off money award of £1,000 for those achieving long service 
with  either  the  Council  or  a  combination  of  the  Council  and 
Berkshire  County  council,  with  the  provision  for  employees  to 
“trade  in”  all  or  part  of  the  award  for  additional  days  leave, 
currently at the rate of £100 per day; and  

£573  plus  double  leave  for  achieving  long  service  employees 
appointed by the Council before 1 April 1998, i.e. only continuous 
service with the Council will count.  

3.4. 

3.5. 

14  of  the  16  (87.5%)  male  employees  received  the  lower  cash  value 
compared to 14 of 30 women (46.7%). This has, as a result, translated 
into a large pay gap.  

It must be noted that the award with the provision of double leave will 
cease on 31 March 2018. Employees will still be able to “trade in” for 
additional  days  leave  resulting  in  varying  cash  values  being  given. 

                                         
1 ONS, based on the Annual Survey of Earnings and Hours, 2016, https://visual.ons.gov.uk/find-out-
the-gender-pay-gap-for-your-job/ 

 

 

3.6. 

3.7. 

3.8. 

3.9. 

However, if there was a small take-up of the “trade in” option, the pay 
gap in “bonuses” should be reduced significantly in the near future.     

Based  on  how  the  gender  pay  gap  is  calculated,  although  the  gap  is 
small, it still exists within the Council as its workforce is predominately 
female (66%). There are more females than males at every level, yet 
over half of female employees are in the lower and lower middle pay 
quartiles (Figure 2). 

Figure 3 illustrates the breakdown of males and females more clearly 
in each pay band. When looking at a particular pay band, RG3, which 
has  the  greatest  proportion  of  female  employees  and  significantly 
higher than the overall 66%, job roles that fall into this pay band are 
primarily  library  workers  and  care  assistants.  60%  of  the  female 
employees in this pay band are part-time. 

CIPD 2  finds  that  there  are  a  number  of  barriers  that  could  hinder 
females  achieving  senior  positions,  e.g.  caring  responsibilities,  full 
time working being the existing norm, career break etc. 

Despite CIPD’s  findings,  the  Council  has  a  good  balance of  males  and 
females at senior management level – 56% are females at RSM levels, 
i.e. earnings are above RG10 (£55k plus).  

 

 

 

 

 

Lower quartile 

Lower middle quartile  Upper middle quartile 

Upper quartile 

Figure 1 - Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

 

                                         
2 CIPD, Why are there so few women at the top, 2016, https://www.cipd.co.uk/Images/why-are-
there-so-many-women-at-the-top_2016-april_tcm18-14006.pdf  

 

 

 

 

Upper quartile 
 
Upper middle quartile 
 
Lower middle quartile 
 
Lower quartile 

 

 

Figure 2 - Number of males and females in each pay quartile 

 

Figure 3 - Proportion of female in each pay band as at 31 March 2017 

 

 

 

 

4.  Conclusions 

4.1. 

The  small  gender  pay  gap  which  is  much  lower  than  the  national 
average  is  likely  to  be  the  result  of  the  long  term  effort  that  the 
Council has invested to ensure fair pay for all staff, including:  

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Implemented a new pay structure in May 2011 as a result of a pay 
review exercise starting in 2009; 

Having a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or 
equivalent work, regardless of gender; 

Having a job evaluation scheme (GAUGE) to ensure pay fairness; 

Formal  authorisation  processes  for  the  change  in  pay,  including 
accelerated  increments,  market  supplement  and  pay  at  starting 
appointments; 

Extended the right to request flexible working to all staff in 2010, 
4 years before the Government changed the law;  

Promoting  and  supporting  a  number  of  flexible  working  policies 
for  all  employees  within  the  Council,  irrespective  of  gender, 
including job share, part time working and, term time working. In 
some  areas  there  is  also  a  flexibility  to  work  from  different 
locations. 

Enhanced Shared Parental Pay to mirror contractual Maternity Pay; 

Became an accredited “Living Wage Employer” in 2014 paying the 
Living Wage set by the Living Wage Foundation as a minimum to 
all employees at the lower level of the pay structure; 

interviews  and  Leaver  Surveys  to  gain  feedback  on 

Exit 
employment experiences. 

5.  Action Plan/Recommendations 

5.1. 

5.2. 

5.3. 

increase  Managers  awareness  of 

To 
recruitment and interview processes. 

'unconscious  bias's  during 

Increase awareness around apprenticeship schemes to encourage more 
employees  to  improve  their  skills  and  experience  giving  them  the 
opportunity to progress their career. 

Promote  the  benefits  of  flexible  working  practices  to  employees  and 
Managers. In addition the Council will monitor the take-up of flexible 
working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation. 

 

5.4. 

5.5. 

5.6. 

5.7. 

Promote  the  benefits  of  working 
for  the  Council,  such  as 
Apprenticeship opportunities, flexible working arrangements, diversity 
commitments, etc. 

Monitor  exit  interview  data  and  identify  any  trends  to  understand  if 
one gender is leaving for common reasons compared to the other. 

Monitoring  Acting  Up  positions  and  related  honorarium  payments  for 
men and women to assess whether there are any differences. 

Monitoring through the Equality Audit 

 

 

