 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017: Stagecoach UK Bus 
 
Stagecoach  UK  Bus  is  a  division  of  Stagecoach  Group  which  includes  a  number  of  bus  operating 
companies. 
 
Across the Stagecoach UK Bus businesses we embrace diversity and aim to be an inclusive employer 
where  everyone’s  contribution  is  valued,  and  we  welcome  the  greater  transparency  on  this  issue 
driven by the new gender pay regulations. 
 
We  are  proud  of  the  important  contribution  made  by  female  employees  across  all  levels  in  our 
business,  but  we  recognise  that  there  is  more  work  to  be  done  in  encouraging  greater  levels  of 
female participation across our group.  
 
Stagecoach already ensures that men and women in the same employment, performing equal work, 
receive  equal  pay.    The  gender  pay  gap  is  a  different  issue  and  measures  the  difference  between 
men’s and women’s average earnings across an organisation or the labour market. 
 
The gender pay gap reported for the relevant businesses of 5.8% is significantly better than the wider 
UK  economy  benchmark  of  18.4%.    Our  colleague  demographic  is  consistent  with  what  is  found 
elsewhere  in  the  transport  sector,  with  a  gender  split  of  90%  male  and  10%  female  and  these 
influence the outcomes.   
 
We continue to work to attract more female employees into the business and retain those who are 
employed,  but  historically  the  sector  has  found  this  difficult  to  address  due  to  a  range  of  social 
factors including the solitary nature of driving a bus and the hours of work. 
 
We  are  focused  on  enabling  all  employees,  regardless  of  gender,  race,  background  or  any  other 
characteristics, to reach their full potential and we believe that having a diverse workforce, with fair 
representation is important and generates value for all our stakeholders. 
 
We are continuing to make progress and have included some of our current and future initiatives on 
page 3.  
 

 
 

 

1 

 

Reporting Stagecoach UK Bus Division Gender Pay Gap 
 
The Stagecoach UK Bus businesses have multiple legal entities.  The results noted on this page are 
an aggregate for all 21 relevant entities with over 250 employees, covering the Stagecoach UK Bus 
businesses, with the full breakdown for each applicable business entity published on page 4. 
 
This report sets out our gender pay results for the Stagecoach UK Bus business for 2017, prepared 
in  line  with  the  UK  Government’s  methodology  which  requires  reporting  by  each  UK  entity  with 
over 250 employees.   
 
      This information comprises:                                 Bonus & Pay Gap              Median      Mean                                                                

1.  Reporting the differences in mean and 
median pay between men and women 
calculated on the basis of equivalent 
hourly pay rates; 

2.  Reporting the differences in mean and 

median bonus pay between men and 
women.  

3.  Reporting the proportion of men and 
women receiving bonus pay in a year;  
and 

4.  Reporting the distribution of men and 

women between pay band quartiles, 
calculated using the range of hourly pay 
rates. 
 

 

1. Hourly pay April 2017       5.5%           5.8% 
2. Bonus pay in the 12           
    months to April 5th 2017   3.1%        -15.8% 
**Negative figures indicate where female bonus is 
greater than male bonus 
 
3. Bonus Pay                         2016/17  
Male employees receiving           68.6% 
bonus pay 
Female employees                      50.5% 
receiving bonus pay 
 

4. The distribution of males and females in pay band quartiles  

 

 
 

2 

 

Taking Action on the Gender Pay Gap 
Understanding the societal and organisational challenges 
Stagecoach operates within the public transport industry, a sector where women make up just over 
18%  of  the  roles.    In  our UK  bus  division  although  the  proportion  of  female  employees  is  around 
10%,  over  17%  of  the  operational  management  roles  are  filled  by  women.  A  more  diverse 
workforce,  at  Stagecoach  and  across  the  UK’s  labour  market,  will  require  meaningful  changes  in 
society, as well as improvements across the sector and in our own organisations. Stagecoach Group 
and our businesses are committed to playing a full part in driving change in this important issue. 
 
Taking action: Recruitment, Retention and Development 
We  recognise the  long  standing  issue  of  under-representation  of  women  in the  transport  industry 
and  we  are  focused  on  helping  drive  positive  change  through  our  approach  to  the  recruitment, 
retention  and  development  of  female  employees.  This  includes  a  business  wide  forum  “Women  in 
Stagecoach”  that  was  aimed  at  positively  encouraging  women  into  our  business.  Other  initiatives 
include a high profile promotional campaign using a prominent social media influencer to help attract 
more  females  into  the  industry  and  to  raise  awareness  to  a  new  audience  of  the  career 
opportunities  we  can  offer  women  in  particular.    We  also  look  to  highlight  examples  of  female 
success  within  Stagecoach,  with  awards  such  as  female  driver  of  the  year,  and  using  other  high 
profile successes in local advertising campaigns. 
 
Our  Group  wide  staff  survey  has  been  useful  in  helping  us  to  understand  both  structural  and  also 
local issues that could be addressed to ensure our many working environments are welcoming for all 
employees.  Businesses are introducing more flexible and part time working arrangements, and we 
will  also  assess  feedback  from  male  and  female  employees  to  inform  future  activities  around 
employee satisfaction for specific employee groups.   
 
We are focused on diversity and inclusivity training at senior levels within the business and in 2017 
undertook training for all operational directors and at our head office.  We are making a difference 
through our Graduate programmes where the intake of women over 2016 and 2017 were 53% and 
38% respectively.   
 

 
 

 

3 

Gender Pay KPI’s - As at 5th April 2017 

 
Statement 
I confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with mandatory requirements       
 
Robert Andrew 
UK Bus Managing Director - Scotland                                 UK Bus Managing Director – England & Wales 

                Mark Threapleton 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

4 

 

