                                 Home            Visit               Shakespeare's Birthplace  This is where the story began        Mary Arden's Farm  Experience the sights, sounds and smells of a working Tudor farm        Anne Hathaway's Cottage  Relive Shakespeare’s love story        Shakespeare's New Place  Walk in Shakespeare’s footsteps and meet the man behind the works        Hall's Croft  The home of Shakespeare’s daughter, Susanna        Plan Your Visit  Prices, booking, opening times and more to help you get organised        Explore Shakespeare           Collections    Blogs    Shakespedia    Podcasts    MOOCs    Video Conversations    Leisure Courses      Education           Schools    Home Educators    International High Schools & Universities    English Language Learners    Research & Scholars    Resources    Bookings & Enquiries    Shakespeare Week        Support us           Shop           About us           简体中文 繁體中文 Français Deutsch Español Italiano 日本語 Русский Nederlands Polski                       Share this page                Share on Facebook            Share on Twitter           Share on LinkedIn                  Home  About Us   Gender Pay Gap Report  Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees.       In this section           Contact Us           What We Do           Who We Are           Annual Reports & Accounts           Work With Us           News & Media           Venue Hire           Our Projects           What is the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust?           Gender Pay Gap Report      The SBT published its gender pay gap and bonus pay gap data on GOV.UK on Tuesday 27th March 2018.  The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust  The SBT employs
over 280 people (190 full time equivalent employees). 75% of those employees
are female. This includes senior levels, where at the time of collecting the
data 69.6% were female. However, in our lower-graded
roles such as retail, catering and cleaning 77.8% are women, leading to a
small overall gender pay gap. The mean gender pay gap at the Shakespeare
Birthplace Trust is 2.9% in favour of men, based on hourly rates. This is
significantly lower than the national mean male bias average of 17.4%.  The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust (SBT) is
committed to encouraging equality and diversity amongst our work force, amongst
our volunteers and within our Trustee Board and preventing discrimination. The
Trust is also committed to increasing the diversity of our visitors,
particularly from our regional audiences.  The SBT employs
people in a wide variety of roles from cleaners, visitor reception, catering, retail
sales assistants and administrators through to senior manager and director
positions.  Each grouping of
employees has a salary banding fixed utilising a recognised external benchmark
and there are 16 pay grades. Men and women are paid the same amount for
carrying out the same work. We have an annual pay review process.  Comparison of the
median data shows a gap in favour of men of 1.8%.  Pay quartiles are
listed below.  Bonus Pay  The SBT does not
have a company-wide bonus scheme as standard. A regular incentive scheme is in
place for our Visitor Reception Team at Shakespeare’s Birthplace based on
performance and one-off bonuses are occasionally made to acknowledge a particular
achievement. For the period the data covers two ad hoc bonus payments that had
been made.  Pay by Quartiles The
pay grades are listed below with a male/female split. Male (%)               Female (%) Upper Quartile                        30.2                      69.8 Upper Middle Quartile           22.2                      77.8 Lower Middle Quartile           27.0                       73.0 Lower Quartile                        22.2                      77.8 What do we
currently do to ensure that we are an Equal Opportunities Employer?  The SBT already
places significant focus on ensuring a diverse workforce.  However, our available recruitment pool, in a
region with the lowest levels of unemployment, reflects the same gender bias as
our workforce. Of applications for all vacancies in 2017, 74% were women.  We advertise
across a wide variety of media. Our rigorous recruitment process ensures that
we recruit on merit and qualification using competency based scored interviews.
We also encourage internal promotions and have many examples of this; however,
as a result, the spread of our gender pay gap does not change. In addition,
whilst turnover is fluid in seasonal roles, core permanent and fixed term roles
have high retention so there is not significant movement in our workforce. Our
average monthly turnover is 4.5% against the charity sector average of 16%.  As an employer we
offer flexible working, weekend working, part time roles, job shares and
working from home opportunities. This suits our 7 day per week 364 day a year
operation. We are listed in the Times Top 100 Not for Profit Organisations to
work for.  Work to reduce the
Gender Pay Gap  The SBT has an
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy (EDI) and a 4 year action plan to
improve the diversity of our workforce. Download our EDI charter for a summary of our commitment.  In order to
achieve our targets we are working closely with the EDI and Access focus groups
and our Staff Forum. Author: Becky Cund, Director of HR & Administration       See what makes us tick   Watch our Video     Your support funds vital work   Find out how       Shakespeare's Birthplace  This is where the story began      Mary Arden's Farm  Mary Arden's Farm is now open!      Anne Hathaway's Cottage  Relive Shakespeare’s love story      Shakespeare's New Place  Walk in Shakespeare's footsteps      Hall's Croft  The home of Shakespeare’s daughter, Susanna        Highlights  Plan Your Visit  Groups  Access  Venue Hire    Get involved  Donate  Volunteer  Jobs  Contact Us    Useful  Collections  Research  Press & Media  T&Cs, Privacy and Cookies    Follow us       Facebook      Twitter   Instagram      Google +    Now open!  Shakespeare's New Place  Walk in Shakespeare’s footsteps and meet the man behind the works.      The independent charity that cares for the world’s greatest Shakespeare heritage sites in Stratford-upon-Avon, and promotes the enjoyment and understanding of his works, life and times all over the world. Celebrating Shakespeare is at the heart of everything we do.  © 2016 Shakespeare Birthplace Trust Registered Charity Number 209302                 