A BETTER LIFE,
A BETTER WORLD.

Panasonic Europe Ltd - UK Office
GENDER PAY GAP
Report 2017

Introduction

In April 2017 new legislation came into force whereby 
employers with more than 250 employees are required 
to publish their gender pay gap. Whilst Panasonic 
Europe’s UK office falls some way below this threshold 
we wanted to be transparent in presenting the whole 
picture for all of our UK based offices.

The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay 
between all men and women in a workforce. But crucially this 
measure does not take into account equal pay for equal work. 
Equal pay deals with the pay(cid:2)differences between men and 
women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value.

The importance of people and their well being has been a 
fundamental feature of Panasonic’s Business Philosophy for the 

past 100 years. Panasonic recognises that our success is 
propelled by the creativity and dedication of our highly skilled, 
experienced employees and the Company works hard to foster a 
culture where people are treated equally, with respect and are 
recognised for the contribution they make. We acknowledge that 
our median pay gap is above the UK average and that a gender 
pay gap does exist.  We accept our responsibility in addressing 
this. We pride ourselves on fairness and equality and are 
confident that men and women are paid equally for doing 
equivalent jobs with equivalent experience across the Company. 

Our gender pay gap is driven by a greater proportion of women in 
the lower quartile and directly relates to the specific sector that 
those employees fall into. We commit to focusing on how we can 
ensure a more even spread of women across the quartiles.

The Key Gender Pay figures for Panasonic Europe – UK Office

This table shows our 
median and mean 
gender pay and 
bonus gap based on 
hourly rates of pay as 
at the snapshot date 
of 5 April 2017, and 
bonuses paid in the 
year to 5 April 2017.

Mean

Median

Pay quartiles
Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile.

Male

Female

Gender
Pay Gap

Gender Bonus

Pay Gap

20.2

21.1

12.4

54.6

33.3%

37.5%

43.8%

52.9%

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

66.7%

62.5%

56.2%
5

47.1%

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment

MALE71.5

FEMALE70.3

Analysing the Gap

  We understand that the bonus gap arises because women hold fewer upper
  middle quartile positions within Panasonic Europe UK than men and more in  
 
 
  bonus eligibility is governed by start date and affected by substantial periods
  of leave which have also affected the figures.

the lower quartile.  Also whilst all employees are eligible for a bonus, our  

  Our analysis shows that our lowest quartile holds the highest percentage of  
  women per quartile which is largely due to the sector of the business that    
 

these roles fall into.

This report has been prepared in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 

and Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017

This statement was approved by 

Panasonic Europe Limited Director of 

Corporate Finance – Josep Betorz

Bridging the GAP

On our agenda for the coming year 2018-2019 is a full review of the 
pay and grading structure for all employees below manager level.  
Whilst we truly believe that we pay employees equally for work of 
equal value, we are also planning to conduct an equal pay audit in 
order to more fully understand the gender pay gap and ensure fair 
pay within Panasonic Europe’s UK Office.

What are we
doing already?

We are making positive steps with a number of Company schemes.

We provide training for all managers 
with recruitment responsibilities to 
w
ensure that the recruitment process is 
ensu
bias free to ensure the optimum 
bias fre
opportunity for an equal intake of 
oppoortrtunit
men and women.
men an

o m orrow

lent for T

a
T

o o st

B

Panasonic runs a two year programme for 
non management employees to help 
nurture leaders for Panasonic in the future.  
The programmed is focused on creating a pool 
of motivated, driven and committed individuals 
who will take Panasonic forward.  In 2017 two 
thirds of our Talent for Tomorrow programme 
for 2017 in the UK was made up of women.   

Panasonic has created a career 
development framework called BOOST to 
encourage employees to optimise their 
career goals.  A higher proportion of the UK’s 
female employee population than male has 
been represented on the BOOST career 
development sessions which have been run in 
the last few years.

