Deutsche Bank

Gender Pay Gap Report
March 2018

Background

Under UK legislation that came into force in April 2017, all companies with 250 or more employees in the 
UK are required to report their gender pay gap annually.

The gender pay gap shows the difference in average earnings between women and men across an 
organisation. It does not show any differences in pay for men and women performing comparable jobs. 

Companies are required to report the overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rate and 
bonus and disclose the percentage of men and women receiving bonuses. They must also break down 
the pay range in their organisation into four quartiles, showing the proportion of men and women in each 
of these quartiles.

Deutsche Bank has two companies in the UK that are required to report figures under the legislation: DB 
Group Services (UK) Ltd. and DBOI (UK) Ltd*. For the purpose of this summary, the bank has combined 
the pay data of the two companies to give a picture of Deutsche Bank in the UK as a whole.

In the UK, the bank employs staff in all three of its business divisions as well as in a range of 
infrastructure functions. The vast majority of UK employees are focussed on corporate and institutional 
clients.

*Deutsche Bank Operations International Global Services (UK) Ltd

Hourly pay and bonus data

The mean pay gap for both hourly pay and bonus is greater than the median pay gap. This is because 
the mean figures are influenced by the compensation of a small number of individuals in senior roles, the 
majority of whom are male.

Overall, 98.0% of men and 97.9% women received a bonus.

Mean & median hourly pay and bonus gender pay gap

Distribution of hourly pay

Mean – gap in 
hourly pay

Median – gap 
in hourly pay

Mean – gap in 
bonus pay

Median – gap 
in bonus pay

36.1%

27.6%

Upper quartile

82.4%

17.6%

Upper middle quartile

72.5%

27.5%

69.2%

Lower middle quartile

62.8%

37.2%

35.4%

Lower quartile

51.1%

48.9%

0%

50%

100%

Total

67.2%

32.8%

0%

50%

100%

Male

Female

Note:  The mean average is calculated by adding up all of the pay figures of employees and dividing the result by the number 
of employees. The median average is calculated by listing all of the pay figures in numerical order. Deutsche Bank’s gender pay 
gap data was audited and verified by an independent third party.

Analysing the gap

We are able to attribute the gender pay gap in the UK to three key factors:

Seniority:  
The bank has fewer women than men in senior and business leadership positions and women are more 
frequently in junior and support roles. We have been focussed on addressing this challenge for a number 
of years and are committed to making more progress.  
In 2010 we made a voluntary commitment for women to occupy at least 25% of senior management 
positions globally by 2018, increasing from 18% in 2012. In the UK the current level is 22.5%. Building a 
pipeline of female talent for senior roles remains an important priority. 

Profession:  
The bank, in common with other financial institutions, has proportionally fewer women in certain 
revenue-generating and technical professions that tend to attract higher compensation.   
These include trading, origination, structuring and information technology roles. Conversely we have 
fewer men in support roles with lower compensation levels, such as administration.

Business Division:  
In significant parts of our UK business the bank recruits a large number of employees from science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) backgrounds where the available talent pool has 
a majority of men. Women are reported as being 21% of the STEM workforce and 25% of students 
graduating by Women in Science and Engineering.  The financial services industry as a whole faces a 
challenge in identifying diverse candidates for roles that give individuals the skills and expertise they 
need to then move on to the most senior positions. 

“We can only tackle issues we have  
researched and assessed. The gender pay gap 
report is therefore a welcome necessary step 
for our industry to continue improving gender 
balance in the workplace. There is  
a great challenge ahead of us but I have  
no doubt decisive action will make a real  
difference to all the talented men and women 
I have been working with at DB. Initiatives 
such as developing our junior pipeline as well 
as supporting more women in senior roles will 
contribute to positive change.”

Hoby, Corporate Finance, 
Corporate & Investment Bank

Taking action to reduce the gap

Deutsche Bank is committed to reducing its gender pay gap in the UK and was a founding signatory of 
HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter in 2016. The bank will continue to build a pipeline of female 
talent for technical and STEM roles, with a clearer path to career progression across all areas of the 
bank.

Initiatives currently under way include the following:

•  A global sponsorship programme, Accomplished Top Leaders Advanced Strategy (ATLAS), that helps 

women progress to senior positions within the bank. Currently just over 40% of alumnae now report 
either directly to a Management Board member or one level below and the vast majority are in more 
senior roles.

•  Acceleration programmes for high potential employees to develop skill-sets which will assist them in 
preparing for more senior roles.  In 2017, women represented 37% and 34% of the attendees at the 
Vice President and Director acceleration programmes respectively.

•  Deutsche Bank offers eligible employees enhanced maternity leave and enhanced shared parental 

leave. A comprehensive coaching programme has been in place since 2008 which supports 
employees in the transition to working parents in the context of their professional life.  Managers 
are required to attend manager transition coaching when a direct report takes maternity leave or a 
significant period of shared parental leave.  A buddy programme and a family focussed Employee 
Resource Group help employees connect in the workplace.    

“I was fortunate to be offered an 
internship with Deutsche Bank.  I really 
enjoyed it and was pleased to be offered 
a job afterwards.  That was in 2004, and 
I’ve been with the bank ever since.  I’ve 
held a number of different roles over 
time, including being asked to spend 
some time in Singapore in 2009-2011 
and have just come back from my 
second maternity leave to work  
part-time.”

Jo, Foreign Exchange Derivatives Trader,  
Corporate & Investment Bank

“The good news is that not only this year,
but in coming years, Deutsche Bank, along 
with other UK employers is going to have to 
produce these numbers so we can monitor 
our own progress and versus our peers.  
Clearly we have a lot of work to do and the 
gender pay gap has to be narrowed, but 
certainly I think there is an acknowledgement 
that all the senior leaders of the bank simply 
have to do better.”

Tiina Lee, Deputy Chief Executive, UK

• 

Increasing the proportion of female graduate recruits in Technology. In 2017, nearly 40% of the 
graduates were women, up from 19% five years ago.   

•  Sponsoring STEMettes, an organisation set up to encourage young women to consider careers in 
science, technology, engineering and mathematics, as part of our “Born To Be” youth engagement 
programme.

•  The bank is participating in additional graduate and undergraduate STEM events, the IT & 

Technology Graduate Career Fair that matches both technical and non-technical graduates to roles; 
and City View that encourages women studying STEM degrees to develop their careers in banking.

•  We are making progress with promoting women to senior positions with a 24% increase since 2010 

in the number of women in senior roles (Managing Director and Director).

Garth Ritchie 
CEO, UK

Tiina Lee 
Deputy CEO, UK

See HR report - for more information about initiatives already in place.

