UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

About us

Our mission and vision

Our values

Expro’s mission is 
Well Flow Management™.  

We provide services and products that measure, 
improve, control and process flow from high-value 
oil and gas wells, from exploration and appraisal 
through to mature field production optimisation 
and enhancement.

Our vision is to be the market leader in well flow 
management, using the industry’s best people, to 
deliver the highest standards of safety, quality and 
personalised customer service.

Our core values describe the essence of Expro. They 
are the enduring principles that reflect our company 
on a daily basis:

•   People – are at the heart of our success. We 

recognise the value of our people and are 
committed to providing the working environment, 
encouragement and personal development to 
achieve our goals.

•   Performance – getting it right first time, every 
time. We are passionate about safely delivering 
excellent quality customer service. We embrace 
teamwork, individually and collectively assuming 
responsibility for delivering the highest standard 
of service.

•   Partnerships – we listen to our customers and 

build relationships to understand their needs. 
We innovatively apply, adapt or develop our 
technologies and services to provide timely and 
effective solutions.

2

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Introduction

With operations in over 50 countries globally, we embrace a truly diverse cultural environment in order to 
harness the potential of our employees.

Our UK business, Expro North Sea Limited (ENSL), now has 16 operational bases and offices that deliver a 
breadth of products and services - both domestically and internationally.  We recognise the value a balanced 
work force brings to our company’s success and remain fully committed to improving this alongside the broader 
industry efforts.

In accordance with UK government regulation and as an employer of more than 250 staff, we have published 
our annual gender pay gap for the period 5 April, 2017.  

As the report shows, we do have a gender pay gap however we are confident it 
is not a pay issue.  It reflects a broader industry issue where women are generally 
under-represented in technical and senior roles.  In this report, we provide further 
details on the cause of our gap, including what our company has, and is, doing to 
address this.

Alistair Geddes
Executive Vice President, Expro 

Declaration
I confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

3

FOUNDED

1973

Operational bases and offices - 16

Employees – 816*

81% men

19% women

* Expro North Sea Limited

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

What is the Gender Pay Gap?

The UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation states that 
all companies with more than 250 employees, must report their 
annual gender pay gap.  

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average pay of 
all men and all women in an organisation, irrespective of their role or 
seniority.  This includes the mean (average) difference and median 
(mid-point) difference between men and women’s pay and bonus, 
as outlined in the graphic far right.  A positive percentage indicates 
that men receive higher pay or bonus pay than women.  A negative 
percentage indicates that men receive lower pay or bonus pay than 
women

This is different to equal pay, which refers to the pay difference 
between men and women who carry out work of equal value.
In this report, we provide details on our UK entity, Expro North Sea 
Limited (ENSL).  ENSL not only has country operational bases and 
offices, it also hosts a number of our UK based group support 
functions that service our international and domestic operations - 
such as marketing, supply chain, human resources and learning 
and development. 

4

Mean gender 

pay gap

• Difference between the mean hourly rate of 

the male full-pay relevant employees and that 
of female full-pay relevant employees.

Median gender 

pay gap

• Difference between the median hourly rate of 
male full-pay relevant employees and that of 
female full-pay relevant employees.

How we calculate the median difference

Lowest hourly pay

Median hourly pay

Highest hourly pay

£

£

£

£

£

Mean bonus 

pay gap

• Difference between the mean bonus pay paid 

to male relevant employees and that paid to 
female relevant employees.

The difference =    Median hourly pay gap

Median bonus 

pay gap

• Difference between the median bonus pay 
paid to male relevant employees and that 
paid to female relevant employees.

Bonus pay 
proportion

• Proportion of male and female relevant 

employees who were paid bonus pay during 
the relevant period.

Quartiles

• Four evenly sized quartiles based on ranking 
of a full-pay individual from highest to lowest 
by hourly rate of pay.

How we calculate the mean difference

£

+

£

+

£ ÷

Number 
of female 
employees

=

Mean 
female 
average 

pay

The difference

=

Mean 
hourly 
pay 
gap

£

+

+

£

£ ÷

Number 
of male 
employees

=

Mean 
male 

average 

pay

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

What is our pay gap?

Understanding our pay gap

Mean and median pay gap

Mean hourly pay

Median hourly pay

+25% +30.4%

(as at 5 April 2017)

As the figures show, we do have a gender pay gap but we are 
confident it is not a pay issue.  

At ENSL, we take steps to ensure we pay employees fairly and 
equitably.  We have a global job grading system which underpins 
how we reward our employees.  In determining remuneration, 
we consider a number of factors; from external market job rates, 
experience, internal peer comparison and economic climate.  
In addition to these, during salary reviews, we also consider 
individual and company performance. 

We have identified two key reasons for our gap:

In the oil and gas industry, technical roles often command a 
premium due to the scarcity of skills, highly competitive markets 
and allowances for working offshore.  A strong technical 
background is also often considered necessary to progress to 
higher paid senior management positions.

The industry has a large under-representation of women, 
particularly those in technical roles.  For example in the UK, 
industry studies show that women represent only 3% of the 
offshore workforce 1 .  This is driven by a number of factors, 
including the perception that work in the industry is physically 
demanding, remote or isolated, with inflexible working hours 2.   
We believe in appointing the best person for the role, regardless 
of their gender, however we also find it difficult to attract women 
into these careers.  ENSL’s demographics closely follow the 
industry average, with 1% of operational roles and a further 5% 
of engineering roles occupied by women.  

Furthermore, there are proportionately low numbers of women 
studying science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) 
subjects at school and university.  Recent figures 3 state that 
only 24% of STEM subject graduates were women and 23% 
of people working in Core STEM occupations in the UK were 
women.  

Fewer women in offshore roles which attract additional 
allowances 

Fewer women in senior management and leadership roles

1

2

5

Oil and Gas Industry

20% women

80% men

19% women

81% men

ENSL

Source: Boston Consulting Group, Untapped Reserves: Promoting 

Gender Balance in Oil and Gas, July 2017

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Pay quartiles

Bonus

Proportion of men and women 

receiving a bonus

9.3% women

10.7% men

(6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017)

Mean and median bonus pay gap

Mean bonus
+27.9%

Median bonus
-170.8%

(6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017)

We are confident our bonus practices are fair. The criteria 
for inclusion in our management incentive bonus plans are 
objective.  Payment is primarily measured against set company 
key performance indicators.  As we have more men than 
women in management roles, more men than women received 
a bonus payment.

We also provide a company-wide recognition bonus scheme, 
known as ExproExcel, which is available to all employees.  
Like any discretionary award, ExproExcels could be open to 
gender bias, however our analysis does not demonstrate this 
to be the case.  In the reporting period, the company provided 
more ExproExcels to women than men, reflecting a balance of 
opportunity.

LOWER

27% women

73% men

LOWER MID

25% women

75% men

UPPER MID

10% women

90% men

UPPER

8% women

92% men

Given that 81% of our employees are men, it is also the case 
that men outnumber women in all four pay quartiles.
  
As we have less women in our pipeline, less women progress 
to senior positions, which exacerbates the problem. 

6

Sources:

1   Oil and Gas UK, Offshore Workforce Demographics Report 2017, www.oilandgasuk.co.uk 

2   Boston Consulting Group and World Petroleum Council, Untapped Reserves: Promoting 

Gender Balance in Oil and Gas, July 2017, www.bcg.com 

3   WISE Campaign, Women in the Workforce 2017,  https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/

resources/2017/10/women-in-stem-workforce-2017

    WISE Campaign, From classroom to boardroom 2016, https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/

resources/2016/11/from-classroom-to-boardroom-the-stem-pipeline

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Reducing our gap

What we already do

What we will do

In order to address our gap, Expro is focused on three 
key areas:

Attracting more women in to the 
industry at all levels

Providing flexible working in order 
to balance work and external 
commitments for men and women

Reinforcing gender parity and 
monitoring gender trends to 
ensure fairness and equality in our 
workplace

We welcome flexible working requests across our UK 
organisation to enable our employees to reach their full 
potential, while balancing the demands of their role with 
commitments outside of work.  These include but are not 
limited to:

• 

‘Flex’ days (one day off per month)

•  Flexible start/end times 

•  Part time working 

•  Job sharing 

•  Annual leave purchase scheme

1

We are focused on supporting industry initiatives that 
attract more women in to the sector, including:

•  Women in science, technology, engineering and 
maths (STEM) programmes - which provide the 
necessary qualifications for a technical career

•  Young professional initiatives - that educate and 

inform women on careers within oil and gas, 
extended to both technical and non-technical 
roles

2

The company will monitor gender trends (as well as 
other diversity and inclusion factors) in the following 
areas:

•  Recruitment
•  Promotion, progression, performance ratings
•  Leavers
•  Distribution of ExproExcels 

This will help us to identify potential barriers and take 
action where necessary

3

Finally, we will train our managers in areas such as 
unconscious bias, diversity and inclusion to raise 
awareness and encourage parity across our business.  

7

Expro Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

8

For more information on Expro, 
please visit our website:

www.exprogroup.com

