Gender Pay 
Report 2018

What is GPR? Following the General Election  

in 2015, the Government  
announced that it intended to 
fulfil a manifesto commitment by 
bringing into force a provision of 
the Equality Act 2010 on gender 
pay gap reporting. The Office  
of National Statistics, basing its  
calculations on data from the  
Annual Survey of Hours and 
Earnings, has put the overall 
gender pay gap for all  
employees in the UK in 2016 
at a median of 18.1%. Women 
typically earned around one-fifth 
less than men.

In April 2018, all UK organisations 
which employ over 250 employees 
are required to report annually on 
their gender pay gap. The gender 
pay gap is the difference in the  
average earnings of men and 
women over a standard period of 
time, regardless of their role or 
seniority.

The regulations require employers 
to publish their first gender pay 
report by 4th April 2018. 

As of the 5th April 2017, our overall median and mean gender pay 
gap, is shown below, as a percentage difference between men and 
women:

Our Figures

Difference in mean Pay
Difference in median Pay

Difference in mean Bonus
Difference in median Bonus

Male employees 
receiving Bonus Pay
Female employees 
receiving Bonus Pay

36.80%
36.81%

31.95%
-10%

95.82%

100%

Analysis

When looking at our pay quartiles, the gender pay gap is driven by 
the structure of our workforce and the higher concentration of males 
we have in more senior positions, rather than our pay structure which 
is structured on gender neutral basis. It is a gender representation 
issue at a senior level rather than a pay issue. 

The senior management team is primarily male, historically filled by 
those who started as Engineers and progressed their technical, 
operational and management skills to become the leaders in the 
business.

This means that currently more men than women are in the higher 
paid senior roles within the business which creates the gender pay 
gap we see today.

Our difference in mean bonus pay is influenced by our gender split.  
Due to our pay structure within operational and production roles, not 
all are eligible for the annual bonus, but receive additional payments 
as an alternative.  Due to the fact that the Company also operates a 
Safety Bonus scheme, which operational and production employees 
receive, this obscures the bonus figures due to the disproportionate 
amount paid.

Our Industry

For the future

We recognise that addressing the gender pay gap is a challenge in a 
historically male-dominated industry where both our current workforce 
and the pipeline of talent from which we recruit is overwhelmingly 
male.  Our total workforce is currently 84.5% male.

Meaningful change takes time; however, we are committed to 
improving our gender balance at all levels of the organisation aiming 
to become a better gender balanced employer. To support this, we 
need to focus on how the industry and Roger Bullivant Limited in 
particular attract more women into employment. We will strengthen 
our links with STEM organisations, to attract talent and build 
engagement from grass roots.

Our Promise

For our existing employees, we want to retain them and facilitate 
progression into senior roles. We want to improve our ways of 
working to embed a healthy work-life balance for everyone. Whilst 
we currently have robust flexible working and shared parental leave 
policies, and offer flexible solutions to fit with personal circumstances, 
including job shares, part time contracts and flexible hours, we need 
to more actively promote these amongst women and men to improve 
take-up. We need to see a culture shift in the view that flexible 
working is not an exclusively female domain but something that 
anyone can do to achieve the best work/life balance for them. 
The aim is for all of our employees to be happy and engaged. 

We conduct regular audits of pay and benefits, and will continue to do 
so, to ensure that our pay structure remains gender neutral, market 
competitive and focused on roles.

I, Graham Trafford, Group Finance Director, confirm that the 

information in this statement is accurate. 

Date: 29th March 2018

RB Walton Park, Hearthcote Road,
Swadlincote, Derbyshire
DE11 9DU

