UK Gender Pay Report 2017
the hexadex group

The Hexadex group of companies is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work, 
where our people can be themselves and perform at their best.
As  such,  we  welcome  the  UK  Government’s  requirement  for  large  companies  to  report  on 
gender pay.  This will give us the opportunity to take stock of where we are and identify where 
we may be able to do better.

In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, we 
share our data for Teconnex Ltd (CRN: 1447529).  Teconnex was the only entity in the group that 
employed more than 250 employees on 5 April 2017 and which was therefore required to publish 
its gender pay gap data. 

Will Milles
Executive Chairman - Hexadex Group

teconnex uk gender pay
gap results

Pay differences between 
womEn and men:

 Median Gender Pay Gap     5.46%

Bonus difference between 
womEn and men:
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus:
Men 72%      Female 78%

 Mean Gender Pay Gap                      14.7%

 UK’s National Gender Pay Gap  
 (source: office of National Statistics 2016

          18.7% 

 

         Mean 

Bonus           29.2% 

 

 

Median

2.24%

Lower
Quartile

  

Lower Middle

 
Quartile

Upper Middle

Quartile

30%

30%

25%

Top

Quartile

16%

70%

70%

75%

84%

Although we appreciate that there is still progress to be made 
in addressing our gender pay gap, it is important to note that 
this is different to the principle of equal pay (which concerns 
paying  men  and  women  equally  for  equal  work).  We  are 
confident that we pay our people fairly. 

At Teconnex (and throughout our group) we reward all our 
staff fairly for the work they do regardless of gender. 
This is fundamental to creating an even more innovative and 
higher performing company.

All  of  our  processes  and  policies  support  this  ethos,  our 
remuneration  framework  is  comprehensive  and  covers  all 
grades, and we always pay at least the national living wage. Our 
grading structure represents the way we do business and we 
are therefore confident we have equality of pay for parity of 
role. 

We value professional development at all levels and this is key 
to the continued success of our business. Our Training Academy 
is a comprehensive training facility open to all employees to 
help them progress and we encourage a good balance between 
male to female ratio in our internal training programs. 

Paul Sleaford - Teconnex MD said,  “as a business, we continue 
to challenge ourselves; we have different areas within the 
business  that  historically  attract  a  higher  proportion  of 
males and we need to address this more pro-actively”

The Engineering Sector
It is well documented that in engineering women only make 
up between 8-10% of the workforce, this alone makes it very 
difficult to reach an equilibrium with such low levels of female 
applicants in the market.

There  is  of  course  a  strong  business  case  to  attract  more 
women  in  to  STEM  (Science,  Technology,  Engineering  and 
Mathematics)  to  help  bridge  the  skills  gap  and  we  are  keen 
to be at the forefront of this. As such, Teconnex continues to 
work  with  local  schools,  colleges  and  Universities  to  focus 
on creating a progressive, diverse culture to encourage more 
females to apply for engineering or senior management roles. 

We know that if we are being fair and equitable with all our 
employees,  continuing  with  our  initiatives  and  promoting 
actively from the senior team down through the organisation, 
we can play a significant part in promoting gender equality.

Paul Sleaford
Managing Director - Teconnex Group

