Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 for England, Wales and Scotland

01Foreword

In a world where firms are in a race 
to identify and retain talent, Jacobs’ 
leadership believes that creating an 
environment where employees want 
to join, where they feel they belong, 
and where they will thrive, will be 
the Jacobs’ differentiator to be the 
employer of choice.

Steve Demetriou 
Chairman and CEO

Jacobs and CH2M have a strong history of valuing diversity 
and inclusion. As we bring our two organisations together, we 
are committed to accelerating our efforts to attract and retain a 
globally diverse talent base.

Reporting our gender pay gap for England, Wales and 
Scotland is an important step on a journey for us as a global 
organisation; 2018 will see the introduction of a Global Diversity 
and Inclusion Strategy for the combined firms, to ensure that 
issues like the gender pay gap are understood and brought to 
the forefront. 

We are proud of our diversity and inclusion foundation and look 
forward to leading the way to actively address the factors that 
contribute to a gender pay gap, that are systemically prevalent 
in our industry, by elevating our focus and commitment to 
attracting, inspiring, retaining and developing diverse talent.

Shelie Gustafson
Senior Vice President  
Human Resources

Declaration:
I can confirm that the information and data provided in this report is accurate 
and in line with mandatory requirements.

Median hourly pay gap

23.7%
26%

Mean hourly pay gap

Gender Pay Gap

42.7%
59.1%

Median bonus gap

Mean bonus gap

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORT01Gender pay gap reporting
This is Jacobs’ first gender pay gap report for England, Wales 
and Scotland under new U.K. Government requirements that 
came into effect on 6 April 2017 and are covered under The 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017. The regulations require companies with more than 250 
employees to publish prescribed information on their gender 
pay gap before 5 April 2018. The report also outlines our 
actions and commitments to improve the gender balance of 
our U.K. workforce.

Jacobs aquired CH2M on 15 December 2017. The combined 
business is now known as Jacobs. As at 5 April 2017, both 
organisations were separate businesses, however, due to the 
timing of the required reporting, this report contains information 
relating to all Jacobs employing entities in the U.K. which is 
required to be reported as per the regulations. 

Jacobs has five U.K. entities with more than 250 employees as 
at 5 April 2017. These are:

•  Jacobs U.K. Limited
•  Jacobs Field Services Limited
•  SKM Limited 
•  CH2M HILL United Kingdom
•  Halcrow Group Limited

02

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTOur combined organisation
Put simply, our people are the reason we have a long history 
of success which is why Jacobs strives to attract the best 
talent and is equally committed to developing and fostering 
a diverse talent pipeline. Our commitment to diversity and 
inclusion means we welcome the implementation of mandatory 
gender pay gap reporting and see this as an opportunity 
to continue taking action to accelerate our diversity and 
inclusion agenda. 

We aim to ensure that all employees are treated equally at work 
across all levels; this includes making sure they have equal 
career development opportunities and are fairly recognised 
and rewarded. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is a 
critical factor to ensuring our continued organisational success. 
We foster an inclusive culture where our employees can bring 
their genuine self to work regardless of gender, personal 
characteristic, or lifestyle. 

03

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTUnderstanding the pay gap
It is important to explain the distinction between equal pay 
and the gender pay gap as they are often confused. Equal pay 
means paying a man and a woman the same amount for work 
that is the same or broadly similar. Paying our employees 
fairly and equitably relative to their role, skills, experience and 
performance is central to our global reward philosophy. We 
review our global reward structures on an ongoing basis to 
ensure that there is no unfair gender or other bias in how 
colleagues are paid and so we are confident that our gender 
pay gap does not reflect an equal pay disparity.

The gender pay gap, as reflected in this report, measures the 
difference between the average male pay and the average 
female pay. By way of an example, if the average male pay is 
£50 per hour and the average female pay is £25 per hour this 
would indicate a gender pay gap of 50%. As senior roles pay 
more than junior roles, the fewer women who hold senior roles 
in a company, the greater the average gender pay gap.

Our industry

The gender pay gap reflects the distribution and relative 
proportions of men and women across an organisation. It does 
not take into consideration the role that the employee performs 
or the seniority of the employee. The following situations 

1. WISE (campaign for gender balance in science, technology & engineering)
04

£
££ ?

illustrate how gender pay gaps can occur, despite men and 
women being paid equally for the same or similar roles.

It is generally acknowledged that there is a sizeable imbalance 
of men versus women working within the engineering and 
professional technical services market and in the types of 
roles males and females are doing in our business. As a 
consequence, we have more males than females in senior 
leadership positions, as well as the majority of our female 
employees in more business support and junior roles. This is 
consistent with the pattern seen across our U.K. competitors. 

Our industry, globally, also has gender attraction challenges 
with a significant drop in the number of girls studying core 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) subjects 
at age 16 – in 2016, only 25% of those graduating from U.K. 
universities with a core STEM degree were female1. If we take 
this further and look at female graduates in engineering and 
technology subjects, this reduces to just 14%. This results 
in a significantly reduced talent pool of female candidates 
and contributes further to an imbalance of men and women 
entering the industry.

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTGENDER PAY GAPWhat are we doing to positively influence our gender pay gap?
The STEM Challenge

After 18 years 
with Jacobs 
the opportunity 
to be involved 
as Education 
Liaison Officer on 

Transport Scotland’s  Academy9 
has been a rewarding experience. 
Introducing young people to careers 
and subjects, as yet undiscovered, 
and watching as they are inspired 
to expand their horizons has been 
magical.

Sarah Morgan, 
Divisional Director

To find out more about 
Academy9, please click here 
https://blogs.glowscotland.org.
uk/glowblogs/academy9/

Inspiring the next generation 

the U.K. and a key influencer in the U.K. market.

If we are serious about changing our industry, we need to 
influence the education and career decisions of our future 
generations. We target our STEM activities with schools that 
need our help, and we build partnerships with schools to form 
lasting relationships that both benefit our staff and inspire the 
next generation. We are working with our STEM network, to 
encourage others to become a STEM ambassador in 2018. 
Our aim is to reach 1,000 ambassadors; this will ensure that 
Jacobs becomes one of the leaders in STEM activities within 

We are also committed to creating opportunities for the 
next generation and have developed an intern programme 
to encourage new talent into the industry. This will include 
placements across a range of technical and corporate 
functions, to give a diverse spectrum of opportunity to those at 
key decision points in their education, such as subject options 
and university choices. 

Statistics from: WISE (campaign for gender balance in science, technology & engineering)
05

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTWhat are we doing to positively influence our gender pay gap?
Attracting the best talent

and also work with organisations such as Career Transition 
Partnerships and The Officers Association to attract ex-military 
personnel for example. 

We want to attract and retain the best talent. We understand 
there is a skills shortage in our industry, and we therefore want 
to be the employer of choice for all. 

We embrace diversity in our recruitment process – we advertise 
all jobs flexibly and use gender neutral language throughout all 
our job adverts as well as aim for gender-balanced interview 
panels. We use diverse sources to advertise our roles such 
as mumsnet, but we go further than just focusing on gender, 

Social Mobility Index 
In June 2017, former CH2M was ranked as one of the Top 50 
employers in the Social Mobility Employer Index which is a 
joint initiative between the Social Mobility Foundation and the 
Social Mobility Commission, in partnership with the City of London 
Corporation. This achievement was based on the commendable 
work to enable those from lower economic backgrounds to 
succeed, including working with over 2,000 students across 31 
U.K. schools to raise awareness of STEM careers.

06

We are also a 5% Club employer - a movement of employers 
focused on providing ‘earn and learn’ positions (including 
apprentices and graduates). 

However, we recognise that we can do more.

Working within 
Major Projects 
allows me to 
apply the skills in 
leadership and 
management that 
I have acquired 

through the opportunities the 
company has provided me such as 
Highways England’s Roads Academy. 
My greatest sense of achievement 
comes from helping others solve 
their problems whether they are 
client or colleague. The broad range 
of projects and opportunities I have 
been fortunate to work on only add 
to my ability to help others with 
their problems.

Beth Newton, 
Project Manager,
Senior Package Lead

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTWhat are we doing to positively influence our gender pay gap?
With the integration of our two great organisations, we have 
the opportunity to create a new company which disrupts 
our industry for the better. We are reviewing our existing 
processes to check that they are attracting the diverse range 
of candidates that they are intended to and we train our staff to 
recognise unconscious bias — this will enable us to challenge 
our behaviours. We are proactive in ensuring we have a more 
diverse selection of candidates in our talent pools and are 
working to enhance our interview training to equip our hiring 
managers with the opportunity, and tools, to make more 
inclusive recruitment decisions.

I aim to be a leader 
who empowers 
people and 
develops a world- 
class team through 
innovation and 

The Women’s 
Network gives 
people of any 
gender the 
opportunity to 
support diversity 

We are now listed 
in the Guardian U.K. 
300 list of most 
popular employers 
– Jacobs is being 
recognised on 
campus as one 

of the most popular recruiters and 
this really helps us to attract the 
best, most diverse talent pool in an 
extremely competitive industry. 

Gary Anderson, 
Talent Acquisition

change. I feel the Jacobs-sponsored 
MBA programme will expose me to a 
full range of business management 
techniques and enhance my skills 
and knowledge by learning the 
principles of business management 
and gaining an academic 
qualification – this is an integral 
part of developing my career and 
achieving my objectives.
 
Young Ji Kim, 
Divisional Director, Asset 
Management

and inclusion in the business 
through networking, mentoring, 
career development and outreach 
activities. We focus on issues which 
are predominantly experienced 
by women in the workplace to 
help create a level playing field for 
everyone. Through our connection 
with senior members of staff, we are 
able to influence the approach the 
business takes to Equality, Diversity 
and Inclusion, and provide a voice for 
women in the industry.

Laura Birtwell,
Chair of CH2M Women’s Network

07

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTWhat are we doing to positively influence our gender pay gap?
Achieving our full potential

Making the right recruitment decisions is just half the story.  
We want to retain and develop our existing talent and ensure 
Jacobs continues to be a great place to work.

08

We provide a flexible and supportive working environment 
which allows our employees to develop and make career 
choices that are right for them — we recognise that this will 
mean different things as people move through their career and 
experience life events. We encourage open discussions on 
topics such as flexible working and career development, as 
well as providing our staff the opportunity to join our internal 
professional networks to accelerate their careers.

We are also committed to supporting women into leadership 
roles. We work with external organisations including WISE 
(Women in Science and Engineering) and ENEI (Employers 
Network for Equality and Inclusion) to understand industry best 
practice and offer training, as well as partnering with universities 
like Cranfield to offer formal education programmes such as 
MBAs. 

Our business leaders are placing a renewed focus on our 
diversity and inclusion agenda through inclusive leadership 
and fostering a genuine culture of inclusion. To show our 
commitment, we are currently working towards our National 
Equality Standard accreditation. This is an exciting 
opportunity for us to assess what we are doing well but also 
really focus on what we can do better. 

For Jacobs to 
continue to be an 
employer of choice 
and to secure and 
deliver profitable 
work, an inclusive 

culture that values all aspects of 
humanity and harnesses the power 
of diverse teams is essential. Our 
accreditation to the National Equality 
Standard will identify and support 
the best practices needed to meet 
our vision, differentiate us from our 
competitors, and ultimately provide a 
nationally recognised certification of 
our commitment and performance.
 Dave Ellis, 
Vice President of Growth and 
Sales, Aerospace, Technology, 
Environmental and Nuclear 
International; and Executive 
Sponsor of the National Equality 
Standard for Jacobs in the U.K.

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTSupporting female career development
We are reviewing our promotion processes for 2018 and 
beyond, with the aim to bring both legacy organisations into 
a new way of thinking. We are looking at what our employees 
have achieved and contributed to the business in a structured 
and timely way to ensure they are rewarded fairly and 
consistently.

09

As a Chartered 
Engineer, my goal 
has been to develop 
my people, project, 
and business 
management 

I have always been 
hugely driven to be 
the best version of 
myself, and Jacobs 
has supported my 
ambitions every 

experience. I have worked on HS2 
(bid team and mobilisation), and the 
Northern Europe Expansion Project 
(business development support in 
Sweden). I enjoy challenging roles 
with a strategic element, and love 
developing projects and people. 
The Company has supported 
me by providing me with such 
opportunities, and consequently I 
am working to become a chartered 
manager and complete an MBA. 

Helena Turner, 
Project Manager

step of the way with a strong culture 
of mentoring and appetite to stretch 
and reward top talent. I now feel 
privileged to be in a managerial 
position where I can motivate and 
inspire others to achieve their 
goals. I am committed to creating 
an environment where my teams 
are able to prosper and continue to 
deliver excellent solutions for our 
clients.

Naomi Brace, 
Principal Highways Engineer/ 
Manager of Talent

I was delighted 
to be selected by 
Jacobs to undertake 
the Executive MBA 
Programme at 
Cranfield University. 

This opportunity and qualification 
will facilitate a fast-track route in 
accelerating my career growth and 
development within Jacobs, taking 
my career to the next level within 
the organisation and at the same 
time, fine-tuning my ability to add 
increased value to our business 
decision-making processes.
 
Attia Ramzan, 
Regional Technical Safety and 
Fire Group Manager 

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTOur employee networks
We recognise the value of empowering employees 
to come together within employee networks. In 
February 2018, 40 leaders of the legacy global 
employee networks across Jacobs and CH2M came 
together for 2.5 days in Dallas, Texas to define the 
integration strategy taking into account the global 
diversity and inclusion agenda. In May 2018 we 
will hold an inaugural Employee Networks Summit 
where we will bring together a cross section of 
network members to enable them to contribute to 
the wider diversity and inclusion strategy and help to 
shape our culture going forward.

10

 

LGBTA LIFE
Leadership Inspiring Full Equality

VetNet
Serving those who served

Enlace
CH2M’s Hispanic-Latino 
employee network

JuMP
a CH2M network for junior 
and midlevel employees

Harambee
Black Engaged 
Empowered

Global Women’s network
Men and Women working together 
for gender inclusion

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTSo, what next?

Hello, Future! 

We have and will continue to attract diverse talent and 
our culture of caring creates an environment where 
all employees can thrive. We believe the commitments 
set out in this report, together with our Global 
Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, will continue to 
differentiate Jacobs as an employer of choice.

11

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTReporting tables 5 April 2017 for England, Wales and Scotland

Jacobs UK Ltd
Median
Mean
29.4
27.9
32.9
58.4

Jacobs FS Ltd
Median
Mean
34.7
32.2
73.7
94.1

SKM Ltd

Mean
27.7
72.9

Median
25.0
4.0

16.7

17.2

Males
60.9
66.2
80.3
90.1

Females

39.1
33.8
19.7
9.9

2.4

10.4

Males
77.4
98.1
98.1
98.7

Females

22.6
1.9
1.9
1.3

22.7

33.7

Males
46.2
60.0
70.8
93.8

Females

53.8
40.0
29.2
6.2

CH2M HILL UK
Median
Mean
31.3
33.5
75.4
66.1

33.8

38.4

Males
47.4
74.7
76.0
90.8

Females

52.6
25.3
24.0
9.2

Statutory Disclosure

Difference in hourly rate of pay
Difference in bonus pay

Proportion of male employees
who received bonus
Proportion of female employees
who received bonus

Proportion of males & females 
in each Quartile Pay Band
Lower Quartile
Lower Middle Quartile
Upper Middle Quartile
Upper Quartile

Note: All figures shown are percentage values.

12

HG Ltd

Mean
21.8
49.4

Median
18.6
22.4

30.9

27.8

Males
62.3
66.9
76.0
87.5

Females

37.7
33.1
24.0
12.5

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTStaff distribution in Jacobs/CH2M as of April 2017

Male

Female

13

Gender Pay GapJACOBS    GENDER PAY GAP 2017 REPORTJacobs leads the global professional services sector delivering 
solutions for a more connected, sustainable world. With $15 
billion in fiscal 2017 revenue when combined with full-year  
CH2M revenues and a talent force of more than 74,000,  
Jacobs provides a full spectrum of services including scientific, 
technical, professional and construction and programme 
management for business, industrial, commercial,
government and infrastructure sectors.

follow us @jacobsconnect

CH2M is now Jacobs.
Find out more at www.jacobs.com

© Copyright 2018 Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. All rights reserved.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 for England, Wales and Scotland

01