              Menu                         Looking after your Henry  Quick start video guides, trouble shooting FAQs and expert tips.   My Henry Support            Henry and Friends      View the HomeCare Range  Shop Now           Vacuums of all Sizes, Wet or Dry      View the CleanCare Range         Dust and Hazardous Substance Control      View the ProCare Range         Cleaning, Polishing and Stripping Floors      View the FloorCare Range         Mops, Housekeeping and Janitorial Trolleys      View the VersaCare Range                Up and coming products  Click to view our future products including the new Happy Cleaning range.  View new Products             I    Henry Because…   Tell us a story about why you love Henry and you'll be in with a chance of winning a prize.  Add an image with the story and it could be featured on our homepage.       Name         Email         Story   (Max 800 characters)         Attachment   (optional)       Choose a File        By submitting a story you agree to the Terms & Conditions.        The Second Round of Winners   ﻿   I love Henry because of the fact that it's helping me get over a life-long fear.   Ever since I was very young, I've been terrified of vacuums (probably because of the sound they make). I believe one of the main reasons is because of my autism. I don't mind toy vacuums, in fact, when I was younger I had a mini toy version of Henry.

      Recently, I've been watching videos of people and their extensive collections of vacuum cleaners. The videos I watch are usually Henry and Co. I still feel weird, but I also feel like at some point the sound will give me no problems. I'm even considering getting a Henry to make a video of my own!

      So why do I love Henry? I love Henry because of the fact that it's helping me get over a life-long fear. I love Henry because of that cute face that's almost saying, "You can do it, you can get over it," like it believes in me, as I believe in myself.  Anthony-Declan Shield      Henry is my best friend and I couldn't imagine life without him by my side.   Henry is my best friend and I couldn't imagine life without him by my side. One second he is keeping the house to showroom levels of clean, carpets, hard floors, pet hair on furniture, stairs, you name it he can do it!

      His tools are superb and there is one for every task. The next thing you know I'm using him for DIY jobs, sucking soot out of the chimney, cleaning up chunks of plaster, brick dust and even valeting the car. He never misses a beat and never complains.

      I even plug him into the power sander to extract all the dust when sanding. Just give him a quick wipe down and chuck in a new bag and he works like the day he was bought. Just yesterday, I was using him to clean up broken glass from the kitchen floor. No other machine could be as versatile and robust as my little Henry!  Matt Richardson      Boyfriends have come and gone but Henry is always here.   I inherited a green Henry 12 years ago when my grandfather died. Henry has been a trusty companion through thick and thin and is still going strong by my side. The strongest suction you could wish for, he has helped me move house, get ready for parties and been there for me when I've needed him most. He never lets me down and I know have a gorgeous red Henry at work too. Boyfriends have come and gone but Henry is always here. A real long-term relationship, I love Henry!  Denise Burrows      After using every vacuum known to man and being very disappointed with their cleaning power, he now always takes his own Henry.   My husband is a decorator and in the beginning would always use the customer's vacuum to clean up after finishing his jobs. After using every vacuum known to man and being very disappointed with their cleaning power, he now always takes his own Henry.

      Henry always cleans perfectly and he has never found a better one in all his years as a decorator. He tells everyone to ditch the Dyson and buy a Henry!  Gail Bennett      My other cleaners have now failed but Henry still performs faultlessly.   About 5 years ago, I had never heard of Numatic vacuum cleaners, until one day, I went to our local tip. While depositing some junk, a guy pulls up in a Range Rover and says to me, "Hey mate, do you want this Henry vacuum cleaner? It works perfectly." So I accepted it and tried it out at home and realised it was pretty good. My other cleaners have now failed but Henry still performs faultlessly.

      I use it in the house as well as to suck up sawdust in my workshop. Four of my pals bought one after seeing mine. To me they are the Rolls Royce of vacuum cleaners, marvellous!

      P.S. they also do the best bags.  Ray Ibbett      Such a reliable brand you can trust to never let you down and always wear a smile!   I bought my beloved Henry many years ago when my son was very young. Henry never let me down and always had a smile for me, Now my son has a son of his own and a new flat so I gave him my Henry, which after all these years works as good as the day I bought it and have treated myself to a new one.

      I am now in the market for a carpet cleaner too and I shall be looking to Henry's family member with the green tinge. Both my son and I are entirely happy with this steadfast little worker who is part of our family. Such a reliable brand you can trust to never let you down and always wear a smile!  Jennifer Selby      Henry helps me learn so much.   I have loved Henry from a very young age. He helped me to walk as I pushed him around. I love vacuuming the floor in the house and I was so excited when I started collecting Henry products. I now have my own Henry workshop where I put my Numatic machines on a small table and connect different attachments, pretend to screw bits together and play with different looks.

      I love Henry so much I even got a Henry cake for my birthday and had home made Henry balloons. Mummy recently got hold of a book, "Henry goes to London" and I was so excited! Henry helps me learn so much.  James Haggarty      Kaiden is so happy when he sees Henry or one of his friends that it makes his day.   My son is autistic and all he does is eat, sleep and breathe Henry. We have even made a T-shirt and vest for him to wear at school so he feels comfortable. Kaiden also has his bedroom painted with all the Numatic vacuums. Kaiden is so happy when he sees Henry or one of his friends that it makes his day. Kaiden is 4 years old and he adores them all.

      For his birthday we made him a Henry birthday cake he liked it too much to eat it! We are planning a trip to Numatic to see how Henry is made as we feel this will make Kaiden's day. Henry is like family to Kaiden, thank you for the design of Henry as it makes both our lives easier!  Kaiden Moakes                The compact Ride-On CRO8055  A compact Ride-On absolutely bristling with practical innovation and user convenience.  View this product          Talking to our customers puts a smile on our face.  Give us a call and our dedicated experts will be happy to assist.     UK Sales  Looking to make an order? Our sales team would love to hear from you.  Tel: +44 (0)1460 68600    Warranty  Has something gone wrong? Our warranty team is here to help.  Tel:  +44 (0)1460 269267 Fax: +44 (0)1460 239506    Technical  Got a technical question? Speak to the people in the know.  Tel: +44 (0)1460 269268    Media / PR  Got a Press or Media enquiry? Please send us an email.  Email: media@numatic.co.uk    Export Sales  Ordering from overseas? You can find your local supplier here .    Floorcare Service  To request a service engineer visit for your Twintec or Floor Machine please click here .    Specialised Department  If you are looking for a vacuum cleaner for a job specific application, then you need to call Numatic Specialised...  Tel: (+44)1460 269401 Fax: (+44)1460 269214 Email: specialisedenquiries@numatic.co.uk     Floorcare Demo  To arrange a demonstration of a Twintec or Floor machine please click here .     Alternatively, fill in the form below and someone from the relevant team will get back to you.      Team    UK Sales Warranty Technical Media / PR Export Sales      Name         Email         Message            Haven’t found the number you’re looking for? You can find our contacts page here .          Home    Products    Accessories    Contact    About     Search         Top ↑          Terms & Conditions    Privacy / Cookie Policy    General Conditions of Sale    Modern Slavery Act    Visitor Information    Sitemap    Worldwide      © Numatic International Ltd. 2018                 