Boots Hearingcare Limited
Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

A message from Rob

I’m pleased to share our gender pay gap report, which we’ll continue to share 
every  year  as  part  of  the  UK  government’s  ambition  to  create  a  more  modern 
workforce starting with these new UK reporting regulations.

The UK government wants to ensure that women have the same opportunities as 
men to fulﬁl their potential in the workplace and to build a country that works for 
everyone.

I joined Boots Hearingcare as Managing Director in April 2017 with a key ambition 
to ensure all colleagues within Boots Hearingcare have the same opportunities to 
be the best they can be.  We have already achieved a great deal on diversity and 
inclusion and this is demonstrated by 57% of our colleagues being female.

For me, however, this report goes beyond fulﬁlling a regulatory obligation. It’s an 
important step to help us measure our success on reducing our gender pay gap 
and focus on the broader issue of diversity and inclusion.

In 2017, our reported ﬁgures are inﬂuenced by the fact that a high percentage of 
colleagues were rewarded with a commission pay scheme which represented a 
high percentage of total pay. The introduction of a new pay and beneﬁts scheme 
for our Hearing Aid Audiologists has reduced our pay gap already as new basic 
salaries form a higher percentage of their pay. My immediate ambition is that any 
gender  pay  gap  reduces  to  a  level  below  the  national  average  as  we  strive  to 
eventually eliminate any gap entirely.

Championing equality of opportunity and creating an environment where all of 
our colleagues can thrive is a personal ambition of mine and it will be a guiding 
principle of my leadership of this business.

Rob Skedge
Managing Director, Boots Hearingcare

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

1

Introduction

Established  in  2000,  Boots  Hearingcare 
operates from over 500 Boots stores across 
the UK. With over 600 talented colleagues, 
we  provide  expert  hearingcare  advice, 
regular hearing tests and hearing solutions.
 
We  pride  ourselves  on  a  reputation  for 
clinical excellence, high levels of customer 
care and great value for money, which have 
resulted in our continued growth. 

We’re  passionate  about  what  we  do  and, 
because  we  believe  it’s  through  working 
together  that  we  get  the  best  results,  we 
value  every  single  member  of  our  team 
regardless of gender or any other inherent 
personal characteristic. Our people are our 
strength, so we take the time and effort to 
nurture, challenge and develop them. 
 
We welcome the introduction of gender pay 
gap reporting and see it as an opportunity to 
identify the root causes of any pay gap and, 
through  our  diversity  and  inclusion  policy, 
ﬁnd solutions for all colleagues that reﬂect 
our  changing  society  and  help  them  fulﬁl 
their potential.

Our people are what make the difference to 
our  customers.  If  we  were  to  choose  the 
words  that  best  describe  our  culture: 
forward thinking, innovative, ambitious and 
friendly  would  deﬁnitely  be  among  them, 
along with a healthy amount of respect, care 
and dedication.

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

Why are we doing this?

For the ﬁrst time, UK companies with over 
250  employees  are  required  to  publicly 
report on their gender pay gap under new 
legislation that was introduced in April 2017. 
With  57%  of  our  colleagues  being  female, 
gender balance is really important to us and 
the legislation is helping us to look at things 
differently and identify the measures we can 
take to reduce our gender pay gap.
 
The  legislation  requires  us  to  report  our 
mean  and  median  pay  gap,  bonus  mean 
and median pay gap, the percentage of our 
male and female colleagues who received a 
bonus  payment  and  the  percentage  of 
males and females in each pay quartile.

2

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
What is the difference between equal pay and a 
gender pay gap?

A gender pay gap is different from equal pay. 

Equal pay

Equal pay is paying males and females equally for like work, 
work of equal value and work rated as equivalent. There has 
been legislation outlining equal pay obligations in the UK for 
nearly 50 years.   

Gender pay gap

A  gender  pay  gap  looks  at  the  differences  in  pay  between 
genders across groups of employees irrespective of the work 
they perform.  

=

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

3

One of the main reasons for the gender pay gap in our society is 

that men are statistically more likely to be in senior roles. 

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
How  are  the  median  and  mean 
pay gaps calculated?

Mean pay gap – If we add together all the 
hourly 
rates  of  male  colleagues  and 
calculate the  average  and  do  the same for 
female colleagues, the mean pay gap (as a 
percentage) is the difference in pay between 
the average male and female hourly rate. 

The median is the middle point of a range of 
numbers and the mean is the average of a 
range of numbers. How do we calculate this 
for gender pay gap reporting?

Median pay gap – If all our male colleagues 
stood in a line in order of lowest hourly rate 
earned  to  highest  and  all  females  did  the 
same, the median pay gap (as a percentage) 
is the difference in pay between the middle 
colleague  on  the  male  line  and  the  middle 
colleague on the female line. 

Median pay gap

=

Mean pay gap

Sum of the male rates 

Divided by the number of males

Sum of the female rates 

Divided by the number of females

How 
is 
calculated?

the  bonus 

gap 

The  mean  and  median  bonus  gaps  are 
calculated  in  the  same  way  as  the  gender 
pay  gaps.  However,  this  time  we  use  the 
actual  bonus  paid  to  colleagues.  We  also 
report  the  number  of  male  and  female 
colleagues 
(as  a 
percentage  of  the  total  male  and  female 
population).

receiving  a  bonus 

How  are  the  pay  quartiles 
calculated?

Pay  quartiles  are  calculated  by  dividing  all 
hourly rates paid across the business, from 
lowest  to  highest,  into  four  equal  sized 
groups  of  colleagues  and  calculating  the 
percentage of males and females in each.  

Pay quartiles

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

4

Our 201 7 results 

43%

Percentages of all our
male and female 

colleagues

57%

The percentages of all male and female colleagues within each quartile pay band is:

Pay quartiles

LOWER QUARTILE

2nd QUARTILE

3rd QUARTILE

4th QUARTILE

27%

73%

33%

67%

54% 46%

59% 41%

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

5

Our 201 7 results

Gender pay gap

Median pay gap (including bonuses)

Mean pay gap (including bonues)

39

%

35%

Median pay gap (excluding bonuses)

Mean pay gap (excluding bonues)

0%

13%

Median national average pay gap 18.4%, mean national average pay gap 17.4% based on
estimates from the Ofﬁce of National Statistics’ Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017

Bonus gap

45%

received bonus

55%

received bonus

Median bonus gap

Mean bonus gap

85%

64%

This data shows that without any bonus schemes, our gender 
pay gap is below the national average.  This reﬂects that most 
of our colleagues are employed as Hearing Aid Audiologists 
on the same basic pay scale.  As they make up the majority of 
our colleagues, any median or mean difference is minimal.

The main reason for our gender pay gap is the structure of our 
workforce with more female colleagues being in support roles 
across the business. 

We  also  know  that  our  old  commission  pay  scheme,  which 
was  in  place  in  April  2017,  was  not  positive  for  gender  pay. 
Under that scheme, stores with a higher turnover were those 
that traded for at least ﬁve days a week. With a higher number 
of women in part-time roles, these stores were predominantly 
resourced by men. This was exacerbated by more men being 
employed  in  audiology  within  the  company  and  the  wider 
industry.  These  outdated  commission  arrangements  created 
an inherent gender pay gap and we no longer adopt them.

that  historical 
Our  bonus  scheme  analysis  shows  us 
commission  pay  schemes  created  a  gender  pay  gap.  The 
percentage  of  colleagues  receiving  a  bonus  was  roughly 
equal;  however,  the  bonus  payments  made  to  men  were 
greater. All Support Ofﬁce roles have the same scheme which 
is  gender  neutral.  This  gap  is  therefore  driven  by  the  old 
commission  scheme  which  historically  had  different  rates  of 
payments and was dependent on the level of actual sales in 
stores.

All bonuses paid in the year up to April 2017 were used for the 
calculation

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

6

What are we doing to address our gender pay gap?

We are committed to encouraging and supporting female colleagues across the 

organisation and inspiring everyone to reach their full potential. 

WHAT WE’VE DONE SO FAR

WHAT WE WILL BE DOING

• Flexible working policies: We have a comprehensive 
suite of family-friendly policies already in place; 45% of 
colleagues work less than 37.5 hours per week
• Reward: We’ve changed the way we reward our 
Hearing Aid Audiologists to a scheme that recognises 
their level of competency and experience and also 
rewards them for achievement against a target. This will 
minimise the gender pay gap for our Hearing Aid 
Audiologist population. Increasing basic pay levels for our 
Hearing Aid Audiologists will reduce the mean bonus 
number.
• Recruitment: We have competency-based interview                  
frameworks for all roles, which ensures that candidates 
are recruited for their skills and knowledge, and 
recruitment decisions are free from gender bias

• Flexible working practices: While we have policies in 
place, we believe we can do more to attract part-time 
workers and increase diversity with more ﬂexible working 
packages.
• Encouraging our present and future colleagues to 
explore non-traditional areas of work: Our pay ranges 
differ by function and our data shows that we have gender 
splits between functions. For example, we have more 
females in support roles. We want to encourage more 
males into support roles and more females into audiology 
and leadership roles.
• Maternity and paternity leave: We want to explore what 
more we can do to encourage both women and men to 
take a greater role in their children’s early lives through the 
way that we reward colleagues on maternity and paternity 
leave and the options for ﬂexible working.

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

7

Our commitment

As  a  business,  we  continue  to  build  a 
diverse and inclusive culture. We are very  
proud that 36% of our female colleagues 
and 9% of male colleagues work part-time, 
which  gives  them  the  opportunity  to 
balance home and work life commitments.

We  are  committed  to  encouraging  and 
supporting female colleagues across our 
organisation  and  inspiring  everyone  to 
reach their full potential.
 

9%

work part-time

36%

work part-time

We confirm that the information contained within this report is accurate.

SHARON BRAND

SUE REECE-JONES

HR Director, Boots Hearingcare

Finance Director, Boots Hearingcare

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

8

Boots Hearingcare Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

