Gender Pay Gap Report

19 March 2018

Powered by our people

Gender Pay Gap Report

Powered by our people

At the very core of our organisation, we believe we are powered by our people. By creating 
an environment of respect, trust and empathy, we know we can grow together to reach our 
maximum potential.

At Boehringer Ingelheim we want to create an organisation that appeals to the best people 
by building and nurturing a diverse, collaborative and open environment. To do this, we all 
have a responsibility to ensure we have the right people with the right experience in the 
right roles, regardless of gender. 

We support the publication of gender pay gaps
Under new government legislation, all businesses in Great Britain (England, Wales  
and Scotland) with more than 250 employees must disclose their gender pay gap by  
4 April 2018. 

We support the publication of gender pay gaps and believe that it is an important step 
towards making improvements to close the gap.

We’ve made good progress
Provisional data from the Office for National Statistics, first published in October 2017, 
suggests a median gender pay gap across the UK of 18.4% in April 2017. Our comparable 
figure is 18.1% so we are broadly in line with the average. We feel that this gap is too wide 
and we are committed to closing it.

However, if we look at our two highest job grades, we have already made progress in the last 
12 months. On 5 April 2017, women made up 36% of our leadership population. Today, it’s 
46%. We are pleased to have made improvements and will continue to do more.

We’re committed to an action plan 
We want to understand more about what our gender pay gap data is telling us and already 
have an action plan in place to help reduce the gap. We are focusing on:

1.     Applying our global diversity and inclusion strategy to the UK and Ireland. 

2.     Further incorporating gender-neutral practices into our candidate attraction and 

internal promotion strategies to ensure that we continue to select the best person for 
the role, from the very widest talent pool.

3.     Ensuring that inclusion is part of our DNA, working to increase transparency of our 
decision-making criteria and continuing to develop internal policies and practices.

Dr Sabine Nikolaus
Country Managing Director
Boehringer Ingelheim UK & Ireland
 

Our gender pay gap

The gender pay gap figures below relate to information taken on the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

The figures show our mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly pay rates, and the mean and median difference between 
bonuses paid to men and women for the 2016/17 performance year. They reflect the fact that we have more men than women in 
higher paid roles, and that the higher paid roles carry higher bonus opportunities.

Pay gap
 

Bonus pay gap

Who received a bonus?

MEAN

MEDIAN

MEAN

MEDIAN

27.2%

18.1%

36.5%

31.8%

There was less than a 1% difference 
between the percentage of men 
(98.4%) and women (97.6%) who 
received bonuses.

Difference =

<1%

Pay quartiles
On the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, there were more men than women in the upper pay quartile, and more women than men in 
the other three quartiles. As mentioned earlier, we have already made improvements with regard to female representation in our 
leadership population.  

27.0%

38.0%

46.1%

58.9%

M

M

M

LOWER

F

LOWER
MIDDLE

F

UPPER
MIDDLE

F

M

UPPER

F

73.0%

62.0%

53.9%

41.1%

Some differences explained

Gender pay gap v. equal pay

Mean v. median 

The gender pay gap and equal pay are often confused, but 
they are not the same. 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the gross 
hourly pay of all men and the gross hourly pay of all women 
across the organisation, regardless of role. It is expressed as a 
percentage of men’s earnings.
Equal pay deals with ensuring that men and women in the 
same employment who perform equal work receive equal pay. 
This new legislation deals with the gender pay gap and not 
with equal pay.

The mean and the median are different types of average. 
The mean of a set of numbers is found by adding up all the 
numbers and then dividing by the number of numbers.
The median is the middle point of a set of numbers, in which 
half the numbers are above the median and half are below. 
It is found by putting all the numbers in numerical order, and 
then finding the middle number in the list. 

Gender Pay Gap Report

Diversity and inclusion: 
our commitments

It is important to us to appeal to the very best people we can. As a global company, we 
understand that the diversity of our markets and customers should be reflected in our 
workforce. Diversity of thinking drives innovation. At Boehringer, we are committed to 
driving innovation and company growth through the power of our people.

We want to understand more about what the gender pay gap data is telling us and 
already have an action plan in place to reduce the gap.  Some of the areas we are 
focusing on are as follows.

Diversity of our workforce 
We know that diversity gives us the competitive edge with both individual and 
organisational performance, so ensuring that our employee workforce is as diverse as 
our customer base is paramount. For several years, we have been offering training to new 
managers on unconscious bias and the value of diversity and inclusion. Last year, we 
started working together with our global Diversity & Inclusion Office and introduced a 
global expert in this field to take our senior leaders through this training, giving them an 
opportunity to reflect on how they could be more inclusive leaders. 

Our candidate attraction strategies
By continuing to incorporate gender-neutral practices in our internal and external job 
adverts, we aim to increase our talent pool, ensuring that we attract and recruit the very 
best people. We know it is important that those involved in the recruitment process are 
aware of the potential impact of unconscious bias and also the benefits that diversity 
brings to our organisation. 

 Ensuring that inclusion is part of our DNA
We are proud of our industry-leading flexible working and family-friendly policies, 
particularly our maternity/paternity and shared parental leave policies where we have 
high numbers of parents returning to work after taking such leave. We know that good 
HR policies are an essential start, but it’s the way we live them that makes a difference.  
In 2018 we will be developing our internal practices to ensure even greater robustness 
and transparency when making decisions about our people.  

Finally, I confirm that the data in this report is accurate and in line with  
Government regulations.

Mikko Majasaari
Human Resources Director
Boehringer Ingelheim UK & Ireland

