 

 
 

 

Gender Pay Report 2017 

Future Home Care 

 

 

 

 
Introduction 
The Equality Act 2010 requires any legal entity with more than 250 employees to produce an annual 
report of the pay gap between its male and female employees. The following report has been produced 
in compliance with these regulations and provides the results of the statutory calculations based on the 
snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

 
Gender Pay Gap Calculation Results 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Pay Gap 

 
Proportion of staff receiving a bonus 

 

 

 

Pay Quartiles 
Quartile 1 (lower) 

Quartile 2 (lower middle) 

Quartile 3 (upper middle) 

Quartile 4 (upper) 

Mean 
-4.1% 
- 
 

Median 
-1.3% 
- 
 

Female 

0.3% 

Male 

0% 

Female 

Male 

65% 

66% 

71% 

75% 

35% 

34% 

29% 

25% 

 
 
The Mean and Median gender pay gap calculations both provided a small negative percentage showing 
that on average, male employees have lower pay than female employees. This is due to the higher 
proportion of female staff in more senior, higher paid roles within the organization.  

During the relevant bonus period, only one individual received a bonus payment. As no male employees 
received a bonus, it was not possible to calculate a mean or median bonus gap. As only one individual 
received a bonus, there is no significant data to show any gender pay gap in the payment of bonuses.  

The quartile splits show a higher proportion of females across all of the quartiles. This is in line with 
the overall organisational gender split which is 69% female and 31% male.   

The figures do not show any significant pay gaps but where there are gaps reported, the data 
demonstrates that female staff are paid more favourably. This can likely be attributed to having a 
predominantly female workforce and therefore a higher proportion of female staff in more senior, 
higher paid roles. This is common within the Care industry, where there is a shortage of qualified male 
care workers and 82% of the workforce is female (Skills For Care, 2016). 1 

 

                                                           
1 http://www.skillsforcare.org.uk/NMDS-SC-intelligence/NMDS-SC/Workforce-data-and-publications/State-of-the-
adult-social-care-sector.aspx 

Gender Pay Report | 2017 

 
 

 

It is the organisation’s policy that all employment decisions, including those relating to recruitment and 
remuneration, are based on an individual’s skills, abilities, performance and behaviour, and how these 
relate to the requirements of the business. The organisation is committed to providing equal employment 
opportunities for all employees and job applicants and its policies and procedures are regularly reviewed 
to make sure that they operate within this equal opportunities policy. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Report | 2017 

