GENDER PAY 
REPORT
2017

WHY DOES DISNEY HAVE TO 
REPORT GENDER PAY GAP?
The  UK  government  has  brought  in  mandatory  gender 
pay  gap  reporting  requirements  for  all 
legal  entities  
with  over  250  employees,  for  the  period  of  May  2016  to 
April 2017. Approximately 9,000 companies across the UK 
are reporting their gender pay gap in April 2018. 

WHAT IS A GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap is the difference between the hourly rate 
of pay of male employees and female employees, expressed 
as a percentage of the hourly pay rate of the male employees. 
The gender pay gap is reported on both a mean (average) and 
median (mid-point on a distribution) basis.

IS IT THE SAME AS EQUAL PAY?
No,  equal  pay  compares  the  salaries  of  men  and  women 
doing the same or equivalent work. This is one of the primary 
measurements that Disney uses to ensure a fair and equitable 
workplace.  A  gender  pay  gap  does  not  mean  that  women 
make less than their male counterparts doing the same job.

2

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017The Walt Disney Company takes a holistic approach to addressing and ensuring 
gender equality in our workforce. We are proud of the percentage of women we 
employ across the organisation and that we compensate and promote people 
based on their roles, experience and performance.

The statistics included in the gender pay gap measurement are not reflective of 
that holistic approach as they only measure the difference between average pay 
for men and women across a workforce as a whole. The gender pay gap therefore 
does not take into account broader impacts such as whether men and women are 
paid the same for similar jobs (equal pay), and the complexities of a workforce 
within a multi-faceted organisation including technical expertise and differing 
responsibilities and experience.

We believe that equal pay is a more insightful measurement. Why? Because 
we are confident that at The Walt Disney Company UK, men and women are 
paid equally and fairly for doing the same job. We benchmark our compensation 
internally and externally and look at the skills, expertise, qualifications, 
experience and tenure of each candidate to establish appropriate compensation.

It is also important to note that we are already making progress on our gender 
pay gap since the data in this report was collected. Our gap is, in large part, 
driven by a disparity between men and women at the most senior executive level 
in the organisation.

We are systematically addressing a wide range of variables that enable us to further increase 
the number of women we have in senior executive roles. This is something that will be 
addressed over time by taking steps today that provide more growth opportunities for women 
internally and ensuring gender diversity when hiring externally. These actions include, but are 
not limited to:

Ensuring the widest and most diverse pool of candidates for all positions 
within the company is a priority for management
Working towards a more gender diverse slate of candidates and a significant 
representation of women in candidate short lists, especially at senior levels
Ensuring gender diversity in our interviewing panels as research shows  
that this has an impact on recruitment outcome
Focusing on a strong representation of women when we look at successors  
for key roles
Developing, mentoring and sponsorship of high-potential female employees  
to help them with getting the experience and visibility that positions them  
for senior roles
Continuing to evolve our approach to flexibility at work to allow personal 
circumstances to be compatible with roles where possible

At The Walt Disney Company, we know the best thing for the business and our community 
is to put the right, qualified people into the appropriate roles and actively seek those to be 
women when possible. At the end of the day, we believe the best workplace is a diverse and 
inclusive one where the best qualified candidate gets the job.

3

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017What are Mean and Median pay gaps?
The mean (average) is calculated by adding together all values  
and dividing by the number of values.

The median is the middle value in a list sorted from lowest to highest.

Mean Pay Gap
The mean is the overall average of the whole sample and can thus be subject to the influences 
of any extremely high or low salaries at the top or bottom of the sample. In other words, the 
mean is much more subject to skewing by a small number of outliers. 
For example, a 25% mean pay gap (which is the private sector national pay gap per the Office 
of National Statistics) means that the average pay of men is 25% more than women.

highest female earners

highest male earners

Median Pay Gap
The median is a statistic commonly used in analysing both internal pay tendency and external 
market norm, because it looks at the central tendency of the market or sample, showing the 
middle-most salary of a sample. Calculating the median involves taking all salaries in a sample, 
lining them up in order from lowest to highest, and picking the middle-most salary.
For example, a 19.4% median pay gap (which is the private sector national pay gap  
per the Office of National Statistics) reflects that the average pay of women by this 
measurement is 19.4% less than men. Because the median measurement is less impacted 
by the highest and lowest outliers, it is closest to the experience of the typical man and the 
typical woman in a workforce.

Lowest paid

the median

highest paid

£

average 
paid male

average 
paid female

£

lowest female earners

lowest male earners

4

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017Gender Pay GapGENDER PAY GAP
The gender pay gap figures outlined below show 
the percentage difference between the average 
pay for men collectively and the average 
pay for women collectively across the entire 
organisation, irrespective of roles. The mean 
and median gap figures are based on hourly 
rates of pay for all UK employees.

This table shows there is a mean hourly gender 
pay gap of 22% between men and women for 
The Walt Disney Company UK and of 19.8% 
for The Disney Store organisation in the UK 
and a median gender pay gap of 15.8% and 
13.3% respectively.  

With analysis, this gap is attributed to having 
more men at the most senior levels of the 
Company and a higher proportion of women in 
the more junior roles of the Company. Those 
earning the most and the least skew the mean 
to a greater extent than the median which is 
why the mean gap is greater than the median.

Pay Gap

22.0% 15.8%

Mean 

Median

Pay Gap

19.8% 13.3%

Mean 

Median

BONUS PAY GAP
The bonus gap figures outlined below show the 
percentage difference between the average bonus 
pay for men collectively and the average bonus pay 
for women collectively across the entire organisation, 
irrespective of roles. The figures also reveal the 
percentage of male and female UK employees receiving 
bonus pay in the reporting time period.
The table shows that there is a gender bonus gap 
of 41.9% in mean bonus pay between men and 
women for The Walt Disney Company UK and of 
77.2% for The Disney Store UK and a median bonus 
gap of 14.4% and 23.2% respectively.
Understanding that the bonus measurement includes 
all types of bonus, from high cash value long term 
incentives to low cash value incentive vouchers, helps 
to explain why there is a gap. Not only is there a gap 
between the highest and the lowest bonuses paid across 
both organisations, we know that there is a greater 
proportion of men at the highest levels of the Company 
which further skews the mean. In this case, looking at 
the median is a more accurate reflection of the 
typical employee.

% of employees 
Receiving a Bonus

Bonus Gap 

42.8%
Men

37.3% 
women

41.9%

Mean

14.4%

Median

% of employees 
Receiving a Bonus

42.6%
Men

59.9% 
women

Bonus Gap 

77.2%

Mean

23.2%

Median

5

1,592

total UK employees
63.1% female workforce

1,284

Total UK employees
71.7% female workforce

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017GENDER POPULATION WITHIN QUARTILES
This shows how many men and women are in each quartile of the payroll based on hourly rates. 
As you can see in the figures outlined below, all four quartiles at both The Walt Disney Company UK  
and The Disney Store UK have more women than men.

Top Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

47.8%
Men

52.2%
women

40.8%
Men

59.2%
women

30.7%
Men

69.3%
women

31.2%
Men

68.8%
women

Top Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

40.8%
Men

59.2%
women

40.7%
Men

59.3%
women

14.6%
Men

85.4%
women

18.4%
Men

81.6%
women

6

1,592

total uk employees
63.1% female workforce

1,284

total uk employees
71.7% female workforce

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017GENDER PAY 
REPORT
2017

