 

 

 

PRICE FORBES & PARTNERS 

GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 

 
 
MARCH 2018 

Prepared by Price Forbes & Partners Ltd 
2 Minster Court, Mincing Lane, London EC3R 7PD 
Price Forbes & Partners Ltd is a Lloyd’s broker and is  
authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 

PRICE FORBES & PARTNERS 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 

 

 
Price Forbes is a leading independent global wholesale insurance broker with offices in 
Bermuda, Chile, Dubai, London and South Africa. 
 
We have had just over 10 successive years of growth, placing non-standard risks for large 
multi-national companies. Our team of experts work closely with clients ensuring they are 
aligned with the best markets, people and products available. 
 
 
UNDERSTANDING THE GENDER PAY GAP 
From April 2017, all organisations with over 250 employees are required to report their gender pay 
gap annually. Gender pay compares the average (mean1 and median2) hourly earnings of male 
employees and the average earnings of female employees in a company, regardless of their job role. 
The difference between those average earnings is known as the gender pay gap, which is expressed 
as a percentage of men’s earnings. 
 
Gender pay is not the same as equal pay. Equal pay looks at whether men and women receive 
equal pay for equal work. A gender pay gap may still exist where there is equal pay. For example, 
there will be a gender pay gap where more men than women are employed in higher earning roles 
which is typically the case in the London insurance broking market. Price Forbes is an equal payer. 
We pay competitive salaries irrespective of gender. 
 
 
PRICE FORBES GENDER PAY GAP 
(The following findings are based on all employee data at 5th April 2017 containing 338 (97 female and 241 male 
employees) 
 
We recognise that there is a significant difference between our mean gender pay gap and the overall 
Financial Services gender pay gap suggested by the 2017 PwC WIW Index3 (34%). We want to 
understand the factors that are driving our gender pay gap and take action where we can to improve 
it. 
 
 
MEAN AND MEDIAN HOURLY RATES 

Fixed pay gap 

Difference between men and women 

Mean 

53% 

Median 

57% 

 
 
 
There are a number of factors behind these numbers. Firstly we have a relatively high percentage of 
men employed by Price Forbes. Currently 71% of the workforce is male. Secondly there is also an 
over representation of male employees in the top quartiles which is set out on page 4. 
 
 
 
 

                                                      
1 Mean: The sum of all earnings in a dataset divided by the number of employees in the dataset 
 
2 Median: The mid-point earning in a dataset 
 
3 PWC WIW index - https://www.pwc.co.uk/economic-services/WIWI-2017/pwc-women-in-work-2017-report-
final.pdf 
 
 

 

 

 

PAGE 2 

PRICE FORBES & PARTNERS 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 

 

PRICE FORBES BONUS PAY GAP 
 
The mean and median bonus payments at Price Forbes are currently favouring male employees by 
61% and 80% respectively.  From the table below we can see that a similar proportion of male and 
female employees are receiving a bonus. However, the men that do receive a bonus tend to be 
receiving larger payments on average compared to women because on average they are in more 
senior roles. 

It is this higher percentage of men in senior roles that is a key driver of our bonus pay gap (see 
Gender distribution by pay quartiles). A second and important factor is the take up of part time 
working opportunities by men and women. At Price Forbes we are proud of the flexible working 
opportunities we offer to both men and women at all levels of our organisation, enabling them to 
balance their work and other commitments.  
 
Whilst many men are taking up the opportunity to work flexibly, the majority of part time opportunities 
are taken up by women.  The fact that so many women choose to work part-time, with pro rated 
salaries and bonuses, adversely affects our gender pay gap results. Despite this we remain 
committed to offering part-time working where possible. 
 

 

Bonus pay gap 

Difference between men and women 

Mean 

61% 

Median 

80% 

 
 
PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN RECEIVING A BONUS 
 

 

 
 
 
87% received a bonus, 13% did not 
 
 

 

 

 

 

83% received a bonus, 17% did not 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 3 

PRICE FORBES & PARTNERS 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 

 

GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY PAY QUARTILES 

A(Q1) 

B(Q2) 

40% 

60% 

32% 

68% 

Female Male

Female Male

 

C(Q3) 

15% 

85% 

D(Q4) 
6% 

94% 

Female Male

Female Male
SO WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT IT? 
At Price Forbes we encourage, embrace and respect diversity in all its forms. We also recognise our 
Gender Pay Gap results are not where we would like them to be. Change is never easy and in a 
competitive industry like ours where expertise is highly sought after and where there are more 
experienced men than women we will not be able to fix our gender pay gap overnight. That said there 
are things that we recognise need improvement we are committed to ensuring we tackle these 
challenges where we can. 
 

 

-  We will continue to provide and enhance our flexible working policy enabling both men and 

women to achieve a happy work life balance  

-  Enhanced Maternity Pay – we enhanced our maternity pay policy in 2017 to offer women 
improved salary during the first part of their maternity leave plus a return to work bonus to 
encourage them to return to work after the birth of their child.  

-  Commit to the development of future senior female leaders throughout the business through 

mentoring and training. 

-  Our recruitment strategy remains one of hiring the best talent in the market regardless of 
gender. However, we will proactively work with our recruitment agents to ensure we get a 
balance of candidates to consider for roles with the Company at all levels. 

 

 

James Masterton, Chief Executive Officer 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4 

