Gender Pay Gap 

Report 2017 

2017 Gender Pay Report 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Carolyn Banner
HR Director

We are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive 
place to work where our people can be themselves and 
achieve their full potential. We believe this is fundamental 
to creating a more innovative and sustainable company 
for the future. One that better reflects and serves our 
customers, and our work in and around London.  

We take this commitment very seriously and already have 
initiatives underway and more planned to make it happen, 
but we do acknowledge that we are in the early stages of 
our journey.

Over the years we have recognised the scarcity of female 
candidates for construction positions and have actively 
explored routes to attract diverse candidates to our 
business. 

We have celebrated a number of successes, from hiring 
apprentices in the trades traditionally performed by men, 
to growing our female project leaders. We are extremely 
proud to have two of our major projects now run by 
female project managers. 

We recognise that construction still has a long way to 
go to achieve the desired female representation and to 
close the gap, and we are dedicated to reviewing and 
refining our practices to play our part in this change.  
There are numerous areas which need to be addressed 
to challenge the status quo – from education, gender 
as well as industry stereotyping, unconscious choices 
made by decision makers, or the accessibility of flexible 
arrangements available to all staff regardless of gender or 
place in the organisational chart. 

We welcome the UK Government’s requirement for large 
companies to be more transparent on gender pay, and as 
required by the UK legislation we willingly share our report 
for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

Ardmore Construction Limited    1  

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Pay difference between men and women

Gender Pay Gap
As at 5 April 2017

Mean

Median

31%

35%

Bonus Pay Gap
In the 12 months preceding 5 
April 2017

77%

73%

Proportion of men and 
woment receiving a 
bonus

Male

Female

9%

13%

Gender Pay Gap
The table shows our “gender pay gap”. This is a 
snapshot of the difference between the average 
hourly pay levels of all women compared to all men, 
irrespective of their role or level in the organisation, 
expressed as a percentage of men and women’s 
average pay. 
Our figures show that the average pay of all our 
women is 31% lower than that for all our men. 
For comparison the UK’s national gender pay gap 
is 18.1%. The hourly pay figure used to calculate 
the difference includes all items specified in the 
regulations.  
The “gender pay gap” is an average figure and 
is distinct from “Equal pay”, which looks at the 
individual level and is about ensuring that men and 
women are paid the same for carrying out the same 
work, or work of equal value. 
The evaluation of our gender pay data indicates 
that the difference in average pay is due to 
proportionately more men being in senior, higher 
paid roles. 
We have a variety of mechanisms to promote 
consistency in reward between men and women on 
the same job grade or doing the same work. This 
includes a clear Pay & Reward Policy supported by a 
Pay & Grading Structure which aligns with company 
benefits as well as pay.

Bonus Pay Gap
Our bonus figures show that although the 
proportion of women receiving a bonus was higher, 
the difference in the level of bonuses shows that 
higher value payments were awarded to senior 
managers where women, particularly in the upper 
quartile (see Pay quartiles by gender), are most 
underrepresented in our business. 

Ardmore Construction Limited    2  

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Pay quartiles by gender

The charts on this page depicting pay quartiles by 
gender show Ardmore’s workforce divided into four 
equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates.
The overall ratio of staff employed at Ardmore is 
70% men and 30% women. 
The charts show that whilst the representation of 
women in the lower and lower middle quartiles is 
at a fairly similar level, the number of women in 
the upper higher earning quartiles falls significantly, 
which directly contributes to our gender pay gap.   

Proportion of men and women in 
each quartile of payroll

Males

Females

The lower quartile 

The lower middle quartile

The upper middle quartile

The upper quartile

60.0

64.0

74.0

88.8

40.0

36.0

26.0

12.0

Ardmore Construction Limited    3  

Lower QuartileMenWomen40.060.0Lower Middle QuartileMenWomen36.064.0Upper Middle QuartileMenWomen26.074.0Upper QuartileMenWomen12.088.02017 Gender Pay Gap Report

The construction landscape

The construction and building trades industry, 
according to the Government and the Office for 
National Statistics, has the highest gender pay gap in 
favour of men than any other industry.  The industry 
as a whole has struggled to recruit women and/or 
raise awareness of the very rewarding careers that 
the industry offers.  This is reflected in the industry’s 
unacceptably large gender pay gap.
Construction is an industry undergoing rapid 
transformation, however, despite the rising 
numbers of female leaders and women choosing 
to enter the industry, women are still significantly 
underrepresented at all levels. It is also the case 
with Ardmore and we can see that the majority of 
our senior, and consequently high earning roles, are 
occupied by men which directly contributes to our 
gender pay gap.  

We welcome the latest legislation and are 
committed to challenge ourselves further to drive 
the changes in the current construction landscape. 
We also hope that that the whole industry will be 
even more motivated and energised to overcome 
the barriers still in our way.  

?

How is Ardmore planning to address its gender pay gap?

At April 2017, our total female workforce stood 
at 30%. We would like this to be much higher and 
along with many other construction companies, 
we’re working to increase the number of women 
at all levels in our company.  
Encouraging young women to see construction as 
a future career is a key focus for us. It’s a challenge 
we’ve embraced and we’re already working 
closely with schools, colleges and universities.  
In the year to 5 April 2017, the proportion of 
women recruited as trade apprentices increased, 
and the proportion of females on our graduate 
programme also increased. We also continue 
to work with organisations such as Women into 
Construction.  

Our corporate objective is an increased focus 
on embedding diversity and inclusion into our 
culture. Our goal is to create a higher performing, 
more innovative company and we are planning to 
set up a focus group to help us deliver a refreshed 
diversity and inclusion strategy and vision. 
Our aims are underpinned by plans to extend our 
evidence-gathering to include more qualitative 
data, which will stand us in good stead to achieve 
our goals.

Ardmore Construction Limited    4  

