INSPIRE - EMPOWER - ACHIEVE

GENDER PAY GAP AT 
GRANTHAM COLLEGE

Introduction
This report contains the Colleges statutory disclosure of the gender pay gap. All 
companies with 250 or more employees are required to publish their gender pay 
gap under new legislation which came into force in April 2017. Employers are 
required to publish the gap in pay between men and women on both a median 
(pay per hour based on the person in the middle of the distribution of pay) and a 
mean basis (average hourly rate). In addition employers are required to disclose 
the distribution of gender by pay quartile i.e. splitting the workforce into 4 groups 
based upon their pay and showing the proportion of men and women in each 
group. Employers are also required to disclose percentages of staff receiving 
bonuses. We have no data in this category, as we do not operate a bonus scheme.

The information included in the report is data collected on 5 April 2017 and does 
not include employees who were on reduced pay due to absence i.e. sickness, 
maternity or paternity leave at this time.

Why equal pay and the gender pay gap are not the same
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly rate of pay of all 
male and female employees (as set out by the regulations). The gender pay gap is 
reported on both a mean and median basis.

As regards to equal pay – UK law since the 1970’s has prohibited paying different 
amounts to men and women who are carrying out ‘like work’ of ‘equal value’ 
or work rated as ‘equivalent’ unless there is a genuine material factor for the 
difference.

Gender at Grantham College
The gender breakdown of the employee population as of 5 April 2017 was 70% 
female (249 employees) and 30% male (106 employees). This difference is mainly 
due to the nature of employment opportunities at the College and the high volume 
of part time posts, which generally attract those with caring responsibilities who 
are not looking for a full time post due to accountabilities outside of College. It is 
also the case that women outnumber men at every level of the College structure. 
However the fact there are a greater proportion of men in the upper pay quartiles 
compared with the lower pay quartiles and a greater proportion of women in the 
lower pay quartiles compared to the upper pay quartiles, has an impact on our 
gender pay gap. 

The bar graphs below show the difference in number of men and 
women employed within each of the 4 quartiles. 

The Gender Pay Gap at Grantham College
The overall gender pay gap as of 5 April 2017 is shown in the table below: 

Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

 

 

Women’s 
earnings are:

8.59% lower 

18.55% lower

The charts below set out the gender profile by pay quartile. The data shows 
there are more women in the lower paid quartiles 1 and 2. The job roles in 
these areas tend to be cleaning, catering services and administration posts. The 
highest proportion of males are employed in quartile 4. These roles tend to be in 
management and STEM areas of the curriculum where out in industry these are 
higher paid positions. This could also suggest occupational segregation, where 
some occupations become more attractive than others to either men or women.

Conclusion
Having a predominately female workforce means even small fluctuations in 
the male workforce can have a significant impact on our gender pay gap e.g. 
if the College were to employ more men in the lower pay quartiles, while 
keeping the overall number of staff constant, this would act to reduce the 
gender pay gap.  

Declaration
I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the require-
ments of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017.
 

                                  
Paul Deane, Principal                            Claire Temprell, Assistant Principal   
 

               – HR & Student Services

 

 

 

 

INSPIRE - EMPOWER - ACHIEVE

