Brookson Medical Care Services Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
Introduction 

From 2017, any organisation that has at least 250 employees who are based in England, Scotland or 
Wales must publish and report specific figures about their gender pay gap. The gender pay gap is the 
difference between the average earnings of men and women, expressed relative to men’s earnings. 
The figures must be calculated using a specific reference date, called the ‘snapshot date’. The snapshot 
date for businesses and charities is 5 April each year. As such, this report is for the period 5th April 
2016 – 4th April 2017. 

It is worth being clear at this point that these gender pay gap measures are not a representation of 
equal pay. 

The reporting requirements  

•  Average gender pay gap as a mean average 
•  Average gender pay gap as a median average 
•  Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average 
•  Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average 
•  Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females receiving a bonus 

payment 

•  Proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered from lowest to highest 

pay (Pay Quartiles). 

 

Reporting Requirement 
Mean Difference in Hourly Rate 
Median Difference in Hourly Rate 
Mean Difference in Bonus Payment 
Median Difference in Bonus payment 

 
Bonuses 

Percentage Difference (%) 
36.9 
57.8 
0 
0 

As no bonuses are paid by Brookson Medical Care Services Limited, the necessary data is recorded as 
0. 

Pay Quartiles 

 
Upper (75-100%) 
 
Upper Middle (50-75%) 
 
Lower Middle (25-50%) 
 
Lower (0-25%) 
 
Total 
 

 

 

Men % 

76.7 

Women % 
23.3 

No. of Men 

33 

No. of Women 

10 

60.00 

45.5 

46.7 

 

40.00 

54.5 

53.3 

 

27 

20 

21 

101 

18 

24 

24 

76 

Written Statement 

Brookson  Medical  Care  Services  Limited  employees  are  members  of  the  medical  profession  and 
therefore  undertake these  services  in  addition  to  their  regular  employment. The  data  shows that 
women  are  represented  more  in  the  2  lower  pay  quartiles  (0-25%  and  25-50%),  whilst  men  are 
significantly  more  concentrated  in  the  upper  2  pay  quartiles  (50-75%  and  75-100%).  These  facts 
substantially explain the gender pay gap as more men than women occupy the higher pay rate. This 
may be due to familial circumstances and women prioritising job security and regular income, that 
comes with employment, rather than contracting. Contractors are inherently at risk of there being 
times where there is no work available, or that their services are not required. Fundamentally, this 
limits the number of people who choose to operate as a contractor. 

Furthermore,  the  work  carried  out  by  Locum  Consultants  is  often  during  unsociable  hours  and  in 
remote locations which requires them to travel quite far for the work. There appears to be more men 
choosing to travel further for work whereas woman tend to limit the distance they are willing to travel. 
Once more this appears to be a lifestyle choice and it is further evidence of why there are more men 
than women in the top 2 pay quartiles.    

Generally, contractors source their work on their own or via a recruitment agency, as such and due to 
the nature of an Umbrella Company, Brookson Medical Care Services Limited has little involvement in 
the rates agreed for the services provided. Brookson Medical Care Services Limited entrust that the 
contractors and/or recruiters have the necessary understanding of current market relevant rates for 
the services provided by contractors. 

How we will reduce the Gap 

Going forward we will continue to work with recruitment agencies in order to ensure adequate and 
equal pay rates are negotiated for our contractors. We are committed to ensuring accessibility to all 
contracting roles and recognise the need to attract the most talented individual for a role regardless 
of gender. 

 

