	

The Arts Club is totally committed to fostering equality and opportunity for all our people. We are 
proud to have created a culture which ensures women are well supported in the workplace and get the 
best possible opportunity to progress. The high number of females in the senior leadership roles 
compared to males reflects our hard work and commitment in this area.  

The Arts Club is one of the very few organisations that can boast a positive gender pay gap (in favour 
of women) in all the sections of the data requested. This result encourages us further to maintain our 
position as a pioneer in championing women and diversity in the hospitality industry. 

Our calculations followed the legislative requirements as set out in the Equality Act 2010 Regulations 
2017. All staff who were deemed to be full paid relevant employees at 31 March 2017 were included. 
The data set reflects a total workforce of 275 individuals. 
 
As part of our HR strategy, for the last five years we have worked hard to improve gender equality and 
diversity by advocating flexible working and promoting or recruiting more women into senior 
leadership roles. We ensured that personal attention and outstanding support has been provided to 
employees during their pregnancy and help with their return to work after maternity leave.  

Our data is in favour of women with the mean hourly gender pay gap at -14.76% (i.e. on average, 
women across the club are paid 15% (approximately) more than men). There is no pay gap in the 
median hourly pay (women and men are paid equally when taken a sample from the middle level 
employees). However, mean bonus pay gap is in favour of women at -169.14% (average bonuses paid 
to women are substantially higher than to the men). This is in part due to the key senior leadership 
roles in the organisation being held by women. The median bonus pay gap is -5.71% (when taken a 
sample from the middle level employees women are paid 6% more bonus). 

We will not rest on our laurels and will continue to work to not just meet our legal responsibilities but 
be a role model for others ensuring that equality is an integral part of all our people management 
processes and procedures. We will constantly monitor our pay policies to ensure that there is no 
gender pay gap between men and women in equivalent roles. 
 
In spite of extremely positive results, we believe there is always room for improvement. We will 
continue to explore areas of the business that are predominantly male dominated, particularly kitchen 
and bar, and take necessary steps to attract more females to ensure better gender balance. 
 
We will be more focused and continuously monitor our recruitment processes, policies and systems to 
ensure there is no unconscious bias towards any gender. 
 
We aim to help women progress in their careers and achieve their full potential through developing 
future talent management schemes such as “Women in Leadership”. 
 

Whilst we are proud of our results, we have an even greater responsibility to continue to be the front 
runner in empowering women and to replicate our results and culture in all our forthcoming 
international openings.  
 
Summarising The Arts Club’s equality and diversity strategy, our Head of HR, Alison Tod says “The 
Arts Club’s ambition is to create the most progressive and diverse workplace in the industry and be a 
role model for other organisations. We want our people to know that they will be compensated 
according to their skills and expertise, not their gender, life decisions, background, or ethnicity.” 

