Hearst UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

At Hearst, our 23 brands reach over one in three UK women and one in four UK men. We are proud to be
an employer with a 74% female workforce and 60% of our Senior Leadership Team are women. We
believe in parity between men and women’s pay and in offering everyone who works with us the
opportunity to grow, learn and nurture their career. We are reporting a gender pay gap for 2017 and in
this report we set out our actions and commitments for closing this gap.

Mean

Median

What is our gender pay gap and bonus pay gap in numbers?
Difference between
men and women
Gender pay gap in 
hourly pay
Gender pay gap in 
bonus pay
Pay quartiles
Breakdown of each pay quartile. Each quartile consists of 195 employees.
Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Proportion of men
and women who 
receive a bonus

17.17%2

3.77%4

17.20%1

11.75%3

Upper Middle Quartile

Male

Female

23%

27%

Female

Male

Upper Quartile

16%

23%

84%

77%

32%

34%

68%

66%

Why we have a gender pay gap: our analysis
• There is less than a 1.5% gender pay gap for 98.5% of our people.
• There is a gender pay gap in our most senior and highest paying management roles, which
represents 1.5% of our workforce. As a percentage of our total male employees, a higher proportion
hold more senior, well-paid roles than the female equivalent.

• The effect of bonus pay in the same group of people gives rise to our gender bonus pay gap.
What we are doing to address our gender pay gap: closing the gap
• We will recruit our senior leadership roles from a shortlist of female and male candidates.
• For 2018 we are introducing measures to support parents including a new Parent Coaching
Programme, to ensure parents who are away from the business have the support they need to stay
connected to the workplace.
• We have introduced pay discussions as part of career development to encourage our people to talk
with their manager about pay.
• We will continue to encourage internal promotion and selections that are based on merit.
In
addition, we will leverage our strong female leaders to mentor and develop our emerging female
talent. We regularly invite inspirational speakers to share their career experience and professional
knowledge with staff.
• We have formed a Diversity & Inclusion Steering Committee to develop our approach to diversity
and inclusion and help in defining our strategy.

Real change takes time, but we are committed to delivering current and new initiatives to improve how
we attract, develop, promote and retain women, as well as other under-represented groups. We believe
in fostering an inclusive culture and an agile, flexible working environment to ensure we attract and
retain a wide range of talent.

James	Wildman,	President	and	CEO,	Hearst	UK

Claire	Blunt,	COO	&	CFO,		Hearst	UK

Surinder Simmons,	HR	Director,		Hearst	UK

Glossary
Gender Pay Gap
The gender pay gap isn’t about equal pay for men and women doing the same work. It’s a
comparison between median hourly pay for all women and men within a business, between
mean hourly pay for all women and men, and between bonuses. Put simply, the higher the
percentage gap, the greater the disparity between men and women for the figures reported.
These figures take into account both part-time and full-time employees.
1The mean gender pay gap
This is the difference between the mean (average) hourly pay rate for all men in an
organisation, and the mean hourly pay rate for all women, expressed as a percentage of the
mean hourly rate for men.
2The median gender pay gap
This is the difference between the median (middle) value of hourly pay rates (when ordered from
lowest to highest) for all men in an organisation, and the median value of hourly pay rates for all
women, expressed as a percentage of the median hourly rate for men.
3The mean bonus pay gap
This is the difference between the mean (average) value of bonuses for all men in an
organisation and the mean value of bonuses for all women, expressed as a percentage of the
mean bonus for men.
4The median bonus pay gap
This is the difference between the median (middle) value of bonuses (when ordered from lowest
to highest) for all men in an organisation and the median value of bonuses for all women, as a
percentage of the median bonus for men.
25% (quartile) pay distribution
The proportion of men and women in each 25% (quartile) of an employer’s pay structure.
How is this calculated?
Take all the hourly pay rates, ordered from lowest to highest, for all men and women in an
organisation and divide them into four equal sections of 25%: lower, lower middle, upper middle
and upper.
Next, calculate the number of men and women within each 25% pay band as a percentage of
all employees with that pay band.

