                York: 01904 677000 | Hull: 01482 314955 | Rotherham: 01709 917517  Home About About Us Meet Our Team News Jobs Employers Benefits Of Our Service Looking for staff Permanent Staff Temporary Staff Commercial Drivers Industrial Jobs Warehouse Submit Your Vacancy Employer Resources Candidates Candidate Resources Tips & Advice Agency Worker Regulations Explained Driver Working Time Regulations Sample CV Job Interview Tips Contact Hull Branch York Branch Rotherham Branch  Menu About Us Mynt Recruitment About Us Top Quality Service Mynt Recruitment is a successful independent recruitment business formed in December 2004, with branches in York, Hull and Rotherham. Mynt stands for “ M eeting Y our N eeds T oday” because we offer our clients and candidates alike, a high quality service that some other recruitment companies can’t compete with. As our mission statement states; "Our aim is to provide an unrivalled standard of service delivered by inspired professionals." Mynt Recruitment are intelligent solutions providers for your Recruitment and Training needs. Our  services are tailored to your individual needs, by offering honest and reliable advice. We are transparent in our approach with everyone. A consistent and committed team at Mynt Recruitment are here to support you. We retain our own staff – so we can give our clients the continuity they like. Over 50 years combined  experience & knowledge, you have a blend of skills and resources at your disposal. We offer a consistent & high level of service from all our branches. Geographical Coverage Mynt Recruitment’s branches in York, Hull and Rotherham, allows us to offer our services across the whole of the Yorkshire region. We also offer a national coverage on any Permanent Placements across all skill sets. High Standards Clients can have the peace of mind that all our recruitment practices are standard across all of our branches. We are members of the Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC) and the Gang Masters Licensing Authority (GLA) . Associations & Affiliations We take our legal responsibilities very seriously and consequently we are members of: Recruitment and Employment Confederation (REC) The recruitment industry’s governing body that set out the rules and regulations of recruitment practices. We are open to be audited by REC at anytime and we attend REC seminars on changes in employment legislation. All of Mynt Recruitment’s office based staff are put on REC’s Certificate in Recruitment Practices – CertRP courses . Gangmasters License Authority (GLA) A governing body set up to monitor the supply staff to the food production industry, agriculture and horticulture sectors. We adhere to the rules and guidelines set down by the GLA and have been duly audited. Gender Pay Gap Report  Read Report  Recent Popular  Director Increases Shareholding  February 22, 2018  Our Rotherham Branch Expands  January 16, 2018  New Arrivals  December 12, 2017  Director Increases Shareholding  February 22, 2018  Our Chairman Becomes TEAM Regional Director  November 2, 2017  End of an era as Kasia leaves Mynt  November 13, 2017 If you have any questions about Mynt, please feel free to ask. Drop Us a Line About Mynt We work with you to match the very best individuals, with the very best roles. Our specialist sector knowledge saves you time in the recruitment process. Use our job search at the top of the home page to find your ideal job. More About Us Job Seekers Help All Jobs Jobs in Hull Jobs in Rotherham Jobs In York Browse Job Categories Employers Help Benefits Of Our Service Temporary Staff Permanent Staff Employer Resources Submit Your Vacancy Our Branches York Branch 21 New Street York YO1 8RA Telephone: 01904 677000 Hull Branch Suite 3 25 South Street Hull HU1 3QD Telephone: 01482 314955 Rotherham Branch Thornbank House 38 Moorgate Road Rotherham S60 2AG Telephone: 01709 917517 Follow us © ™Mynt Recruitment. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Website Disclaimer | Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy Website designed by NetChimp