Gender pay gap report
2017

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

Introduction

Nick Hugh
CEO

Women should expect to have the same opportunities 
to advance their careers as men. It is not only right for 
society but for the success of our business. We serve 
a diverse audience and we must have a representative 
workforce. It is this belief that lives at the heart of our 
commitment to a zero gender pay gap by 2025.

Since my appointment as CEO last summer, we  

have made good progress towards this target. Diversity 
and inclusion now form a key part of our long-term 
business strategy and improving how we recruit, 
develop and retain talented women is having a 
significant and measurable impact across our business. 
More inclusive recruitment practices, better maternity 
pay and benefits as well as a host of other initiatives,  
have culminated in an improved gender balance, from 
senior leadership through to our apprenticeship and 
graduate programmes.

Looking forward, we are building on this progress 
with a plan to tackle the key underlying issues that 
contribute to our gender pay gap. From building a more 

inclusive culture to making structural changes in the 
way we approach flexible working so women and men 
can have long and successful careers at The Telegraph. 
We will also continue to ensure we are hiring from the 
widest pool of talent to recruit the very best, through 
50:50 gender shortlists, screening job adverts for gender 
bias, and monitoring gender data across the recruitment 
process, from application to hire.

While we are moving in the right direction, we have 

much to do. As of April 2017, our gender pay report  
shows an unacceptable gap between the average pay  
for men compared with women. The main reason for 
this has been a lack of female representation at the most 
senior levels, something which we have already started 
to address. Our projections for the year 2018 indicate that 
we have eradicated one-fifth of the pay gap. Today we 
have more women in senior roles than ever before, and 
we are stronger for it, but to achieve gender parity we 
have to go much further.

Our aim of a zero gender pay gap by 2025 clearly 

demonstrates where we see the future of The Telegraph. 
This is a core business measurement which we will 
monitor and report regularly. We have a global audience 
with different perspectives, experiences, beliefs and 
needs. It is our responsibility to ensure they are served 
by a workforce that is truly representative of society 
as a whole, where everyone, regardless of gender and 
background, has the opportunity to progress. Quality 
and equality is essential to the success of our business.

I confirm the data contained in this report is accurate.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

2

Our gender pay gap 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in average 
pay between men and women. It does not measure 
equal pay, which relates to men and women being 
paid equally for the same or similar roles.

The mean figure is the difference between the 
average of men and women’s pay across the whole 
organisation, while the median is the middle of all the 
figures once the data is set out in numerical order.

Pay and bonus gap
Difference between women and men

Hourly pay

Bonus pay

Mean

35.03%
46.19%

Median

23.36%
0.00%

This shows our overall mean and median gender pay 
gap based on hourly rates of pay as of the snapshot date, 
April 5, 2017. Women’s hourly mean pay rate was on 
average 35% lower than it was for men. Using the median 
data, women’s hourly pay rate was 23% lower than for 
men. There was a 46% difference between bonuses paid  
to men and women in 2017.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

Proportion of employees 
receiving a bonus

92.40%

90.36%

Women Men

3

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

Pay quartiles

Women Men

Proportion of employees in each pay quartile band

61.6%

49.6%

36.4%

26.9%

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

38.4%

50.4%

63.6%

73.1%

These charts illustrate the gender pay distribution 
across our workforce in quartiles. This is where our 
1,099 employees are divided into four equally-sized 
populations based on their pay.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

4

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

Closing the gap

Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture sits at the heart of our 
aim of achieving a zero gender pay gap by 2025. We will do this by 
ensuring everyone, regardless of gender or background, is given 
the opportunity to reach their full potential.

How we 
will do this

Create a more inclusive culture 
Diversity and inclusion is at the heart of our strategy; 
we will empower our D&I networks to drive positive 
change. They include Employee Resource Groups for 
gender, parenting, LGBT, accessibility, black, Asian 
and minority ethnicity.

Career development
Flexible working is a key priority. We want to create 
a culture where the default position to requests is 
yes. We are working with our teams to understand 
how we can overcome challenges to more easily 
facilitate job sharing and working part-time. 

We want to improve the rate at which women return 
to work after maternity leave and the length of time 
they stay with the company. As well as improved 
maternity benefits, we have recently introduced 
maternity coaching to support women before 

maternity leave, during and after their return.  We 
also provide training to managers on how best to 
support women on maternity leave.

Reward and recognition
We will continue to benchmark pay to ensure  
it is equitable in the market across salary reviews, 
recruitment and promotions; and monitor pay 
and bonus awards so there is fair and equal pay 
progression – especially for those in part-time roles.

Attracting the best talent
50:50 gender shortlists were introduced last year,
for all roles at all levels. We will also ensure a mix  
of male and female interview panels and screen job 
ads for gender bias. Gender data will be monitored 
across the recruitment process from application 
through to hire.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    2017

5

