Gender pay
gap report
2017

The automotive industry and 
the workforce employed within 
it has traditionally been heavily 
male dominated – within both the 
manufacturing and retail sectors.
In a modern society that has a healthy 
respect for diversity in the workplace, 
such sizeable imbalances are no longer 
acceptable and do not meet the needs 
or expectations of the customers that 
the industry aims to serve.

Over the nearly 50 years since Howards Group was established, a drive for 
continual improvement has been at the heart of the Company’s success and as 
such, we fully support the Government’s decision to ensure larger employers 
publish their gender pay gap statistics.

The information published is a reflection of the gender pay gap which we are 
continuing to address.  It is not about equal pay; the Howards Group pay the 
same rates for roles of equal value, irrespective of the sex of the person who 
carries out that role.

How are Howards 
embracing these changes?

The days of sharp-suited, smooth-talking, deal-making salesmen are 
long gone. We know the modern customer wants accurate information, 
meaningful advice and an efficient process that is delivered by a 
knowledgeable advisor that they can trust and who is focussed totally 
on the specific needs of the individual.

By changing our sales team structures and through the introduction of 
Product & Handover Specialists, we have made great improvement to 
the purchase experiences of our customers.

•  Our Product & Handover Specialists 
are generally female giving a better 
balance of gender representation 
in our showrooms and much better 
reflecting the profile of customers 
that we serve

•  These Specialists are paid an annual 

salary rather than depending on 
sales commission for a large part of 
their remuneration. This supports 
a customer centric ethos where 
quality of service is the fundamental 
measure of success rather than 
simply the number of cars sold

•  Many of these Specialists work 
a five-day week and therefore 
enjoy a better work-life balance 
than is often the case in retail 
environments. We believe this helps 
in attracting a broader and more 
diverse group of people and in 
particular women.  

•  We hope that by developing the 

skills of these colleagues and 
building on their experience, we 
will see a heavier representation 
of women in middle and senior 
management roles in the future

What are the next steps for Howards?

The ongoing development of our business is seen by us as a timeless journey and 
not a destination that can be reached. It is our intention to continue to attract, 
recruit, retain and develop a diverse group of highly trained colleagues who deliver 
everything that the future customer expects from a modern and forward-thinking 
business. It remains our firm objective to ensure that every employee is treated 
fairly, equitably and consistently in all aspects of their employment including their 
terms of employment, working conditions and remuneration irrespective of their 
gender.

Gender pay and bonus reporting 
statistics for staff employed 
at 5th April 2017
The gender pay gap explained

A pay gap is the difference in average pay between two groups within a workforce. It 
is not to be confused with equal pay. This is a different matter and is concerned with 
being paid equally for the same or similar work. Below we will consider the gender 
pay gap.

Our workforce

Being part of the historically male dominated automotive industry, it is no surprise 
that the Howards Group has an uneven gender split between men and women.

We are proud to have more women involved in all areas of our business and we are 
looking forward to building on the progress we have made.

76.3%

male

23.7%

female

The figures for both mean and median hourly rate and bonus are entirely reflective 
of the demographic of our organisation. Our business has more males at senior 
level and as such our average male salary (mean and median) is higher than our 
average female salary. This pay gap will continue to exist until we achieve a fair 
representation of men and women at all levels, which is something we are working 
hard to achieve.

Difference in mean hourly rate of pay

Gender pay
24.86%
Gender bonus

male

Difference in median hourly rate of pay

21.6%

male

Percentage of men and women receiving bonus

81.69%

male

72.73%

male

Difference in mean bonus pay

82.16%

male

Difference in median bonus pay

85.17%

male

Pay banding

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile

74.63%
25.37%

male

male

47.83%
52.17%

male

male

Upper middle quartile

Upper quartile

89.55%
10.45%

male

male

male

92.75%
7.25%

male

