Gender 
Pay Gap 
report

NOVEMBER 2017

Introduction
from Iain Coucher, 
AWE CEO
Talent is unrelated to gender, 
ethnicity, sexual orientation, social 
background or any other form of 
diversity. 

Addressing instances of gender pay 
gaps is a moral and ethical issue. 
There may be reasons why, over 
time, these have emerged, but there 
can be no excuses for failing to deal 
with these in the present or future. 

We, like all companies, must 
relentlessly focus on ensuring 
fairness and equality among our 
workforce. I and the rest of the 
directors of AWE are absolutely 
committed to doing this. 

Foreword 
from Alison Atkinson, AWE
Director of Capital Projects 
As an organisation with more than 
250 employees we are publishing our 
gender pay gap, annually, starting 
this year. At AWE we have a gender 
pay gap of 16.7%, just under the 
national comparison of 18.4%. 
However, it is still a gap, and we must 
address it.
 
In the following pages you will see the 
data split out in a number of different 
ways, and an explanation of what it 
means. AWE is an organisation with a 
proud history stretching back almost 
70 years. We have a long-serving and 
skilled workforce and, like many other 
science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics (STEM) companies, the 
majority of roles were filled by men. 
It’s where we find ourselves today, 

and I think of this not as an 

excuse, but rather where we 

have come from.

To achieve our organisational goals 
we need to attract, retain and harness 
the skills of all our talented people, 
both women and men. One of the 
ways we are addressing the structural 
issues at AWE is by focusing on 
building an inclusive culture that 
celebrates diversity of thought, 
innovation and challenge, so that  
all of us may flourish. 
 
To inform us on the best way to do 
this, in 2014 we were among the first 
companies to sign up to the Women  
In Science and Engineering (WISE)  
Ten Steps – a campaign designed to 
sustain the pipeline of female talent 
in STEM.
 
There should be no barriers to talent, 
and like many professional women I 
feel a responsibility to challenge those 
long entrenched barriers, conscious or 

otherwise. To this end we have a goal 
of achieving 50:50 gender split of  
new hires by 2020 and diverse 
promotion boards. Since signing up to 
WISE Ten Steps we have made great 
progress in making sure we do the 
best to ensure women have the same 
opportunities to work at this great 
company.
 
My pledge is to drive our diversity and 
inclusion strategy. At AWE we are 
determined to deliver an evolving plan 
so that we can attract and sustain 
talent because, put simply, it is crucial 
for our future.

“As CEO of AWE plc I am authorised to confirm 
that the information published  in this report, 
in accordance with regulation 2 of The Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017, is correct.”  

CEO Iain Coucher

2

Glossary

Gender pay gap
The gender pay gap isn’t about equal pay for men and 
women doing the same work. It’s a comparison 
between median hourly pay for all women and men 
within a business, between mean hourly pay for all 
women and men, and between bonuses. Put simply, 
the higher the percentage gap, the greater the 
disparity between men and women for the figures 
reported. These figures take into account both part-
time and full-time employees.

The median gender pay gap
This is the difference between the median (middle) value 
of hourly pay rates (when ordered from lowest to highest) 
for all men in an organisation, and the median value of 
hourly pay rates for all women, expressed as a percentage 
of the median hourly rate for men. 

The mean gender pay gap
This is the difference between the mean (average) 
hourly pay rate for all men in an organisation, and the 
mean hourly pay rate for all women, expressed as a 
percentage of the mean hourly rate for men.  

The median bonus pay gap
This is the difference between the median (middle) 
value of bonuses (when ordered from lowest to 
highest) for all men in an organisation and the median 
value of bonuses for all women, as a percentage of 
the median bonus for men.  

The mean bonus pay gap 
This is the difference between the mean (average) 
value of bonuses for all men in an organisation and 
the mean value of bonuses for all women, expressed 
as a percentage of the mean bonus for men. 

25% (quartile) pay distribution
The proportion of men and women in each 25% 
(quartile) of an employer’s pay structure. 
How is that worked out?
l  Take all the hourly pay rates, ordered from lowest 

to highest, for all men and women in an 
organisation and divide them into four equal 
sections of 25%: lower, lower middle, upper 
middle and upper.

l  Next, calculate the number of men and women 

within each 25% pay band as a percentage of all 
employees within that pay band.

PAY£
MEN&
WOMEN

BETWEEN

*
AWE EMPLOYEES

DIFFERENCE IN
MEDIAN
PAY

=

16.7%
12.9%
❝ The national gender gap is 

=

DIFFERENCE IN
MEAN
PAY

        18.4% ❞

= difference in median pay

**

AT AWE THE GENDER SPLIT IS APPROX 
80% MEN AND 20% WOMEN

*      AWE data is from April 2017 and includes employees,  

not IPs, contractors or secondees.

**   Office for National Statistics, Oct 2017, median hourly  

pay all industries and sectors. 

3

Kerry and daughter Heidi

Kerry
Head of Profession for 
Electronics Engineering
❝

ago and it continues to be a varied and 
rewarding partnership. I reflect on my career a 
bit like looking back through a passport.

I joined AWE as an apprentice 30 years 

I own it, there are lots of learning journeys and 
great experiences along the way. Being 
confident in my ability and knowing how I can 
focus my contribution at a particular period of time 
has been key to a work-life balance.

Working as a team with my husband and with AWE’s 
support, I worked flexibly on reduced hours for 14 years across the 
schooling of our two children. We were able to flex the number and length of days 
to match the age and needs of the children, so I could continue to contribute at 
work and do the school run.

During that 14-year period, I had six challenging and diverse roles, two promotions 
and was recognised as one of only 500 female engineering Fellows by the Institution 
of Engineering and Technology.

I am very proud to be Head of Profession for Electronics Engineering. I feel I have an 
important responsibility to act as a role model for others and continue to ensure 
AWE provides a positive inclusive environment to attract, reward and retain the best 
talent. Finally, and most importantly, creating an environment to succeed through 
opportunity and nurturing talent at every level applies to raising a family and running 
a large team, I am passionate about both. The two came together when my 
daughter Heidi joined AWE last year on the apprenticeship scheme. This was a very 
proud moment and it reminded me that as parents we are the strongest influencing 
role models for our children.

❝

PROPORTION OF

EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED

MEN&
WOMEN
BONUS
2.6%
1.7%

PAY

VS.

MEAN GENDER BONUS PAY GAP: -31.2% 
AND MEDIAN GENDER BONUS PAY GAP: -20%

There is no national comparator for these figures.

The mean and median bonus pay gap figures are negative because the gaps  
are in favour of women – meaning their bonuses are higher although fewer 
women receive a bonus.

❝ As with other similar industries,  

a large proportion of our workforce may 
choose to retire in the next 10-15 years. It’s 
essential that we can attract from the 
broadest pool of talent, so we have the best 
people to build on the achievements of 

colleagues here today. ❞Director of HR – Kathryn Marshall

4

Gareth
Early Careers Team Lead
❝

in a Changing World’.

I recently went to a workshop on the theme of ‘Leading Diversity  

I thought it would be all about gender balance and positive action. But I was in for 
a surprise. There was a lot more to it – three areas in particular were covered that I 
hadn’t considered in any depth. They were neurodiversity, different age groups in 
the workplace and the effect of the built environment on diversity.

It was brilliant, incredibly interesting. I can see now that we need to think of 
diversity as something with lots of parts that need fixing. Gender balance is only 
one of them. And, of course, it’s not just about getting more women into STEM 
careers.

Sometimes the shoe’s on the other foot – like trying to get more men into HR. It’s 
not just an AWE problem, it’s a global problem. But we’re part of the jigsaw.  
I think as a society, we’ve created problems  
for ourselves that we need to tackle.  
Within AWE, it’s not just for leaders, 
everyone needs to be aware. We all  
have a part to play.

Given my role, I think it’s vital I have 
a good grasp of this. I’m well 
placed to make a difference  
– and that’s what I’m setting  
out to do.

❝

PROPORTION OF

MEN&
WOMEN
EMPLOYEES
IN EACH QUARTILE
OF THE TOTAL PAY
DISTRIBUTION
13.2%

UPPER QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

LOWER QUARTILE

86.8%

82.2%

76.1%

68.4%

17.8%

23.9%

31.6%

There is no national comparator for these figures.

5

Ashleigh
Mechanical Maintenance Apprentice
❝

In my final year of GCSEs I knew that college was not the next step for me.  
I wanted to leave school and do something that was interesting and hands on; a 
place where I could get experience in the working world.

I had come across AWE through TeenTech, where engineering companies showcase 
what they do, when I was 13. Due to my inspiring experience of the company, I 
decided that an AWE apprenticeship was definitely the best step for me. 

I found the AWE website and navigated my way through the apprenticeship 
opportunities. The thought of going into an industry that I have no experience of 
was daunting! I applied anyway.

The trade I decided to apply for was mechanical maintenance. Why? Because  
I think it is fascinating finding out what’s really behind all the machines we use.

My first year I spent working on lathes and mills, where I learnt 
how to machine a variety of components. Now I am 
working on maintenance tasks, my next being 
stripping and assembling a pillar drill.

Not only do you complete engineering tasks, 
you have the opportunity to get involved in a 
variety of outreach activities to further develop 
your people skills. The outreach events have 
made me a more confident person and also 
allowed me to network with people out and 
around the site.

❝

Our action plan

We support flexible working 
and all staff can apply for this

Through regular outreach 
activities, AWE aims to 
inspire more young 
women to study  
STEM-related subjects

Our long-term goal is to achieve a 
50:50 gender split of new hires

We are committed to 
progressing on the 
WISE Ten Steps 
campaign and we will 
continue to work with 
WISE to encourage 
more women into 
STEM roles

We will continue to support 
career progression across all 
sectors at AWE and identify 
and address barriers where 
we find them

6

www.awe.co.uk           @awe_plc

Published by AWE, Aldermaston, Reading, Berkshire RG7 4PR. Designed by Pages Creative (www.pagescreative.co.uk). © British Crown Owned Copyright 2017/AWE

