GENDER 
PAY GAP 
REPORT
2017

1

INTRODUCTION

I’m pleased to introduce Virgin Trains 
East Coast’s first gender pay report.

Gender pay reporting legislation was 
introduced in 2017, and now organisations 
employing more than 250 colleagues 
must publish an annual report on six areas 
including the distribution of male and 
female employees over pay ranges  
(in quartiles), mean and median gender 
pay, average bonuses and the proportion 
of females and males receiving a bonus.

There has been much media attention 
recently about gender pay, and 
understandably so. It’s put a spotlight 
on some of the inequalities that exist 
within the UK. For us in the rail industry, 
traditionally a male-orientated world, it’s 
a good opportunity to stop and look at 
our pay and recruitment decisions, and 
understand what could and should be 
done to make it better and to ensure our 
workforce is more representative of the 
customers and the communities we serve.

For us, this focus is welcomed with open 
arms. We’re all about shaking things up; 
it’s just one of the many reasons why 
Virgin is a world-known brand. We’re very 
proud of this and will always endeavour 
to do what’s best for our people. 

Of course, we can always strive to be 
better. It would not be wise to think 
what we’re doing now is enough and the 
Government’s new legislation presents 
a clear challenge for all companies to 
ensure they’re putting their people first.

And at Virgin Trains East Coast we are 
committed to delivering outstanding 
customer service and know that will 
be achieved through the quality of our 
people.  I’m determined to continue the 
good work we’ve done so far to get the 
brightest sparks into the company, while 
seeking out new opportunities to fairly 
award our colleagues.

Thank you.

Clare Burles 
People Director

And to be better, we have and always will 
celebrate and encourage diversity and 
promote talent.  It’s this that will attract 
the brightest and best, and ultimately 
deliver superb customer service and a 
safe and efficient operation.

Our first gender report accurately  
reflects the data as of 5 April 2017 but 
also looks more broadly at what we’re 
doing as a company to get the best 
people through our doors. I’m proud to 
say it also demonstrates our approach 
to ensuring that people receive equal 
pay in the same roles irrespective of 
their gender. Where a gender pay gap 
does exist it reflects the distribution of 
roles between men and women typical 
of the rail industry. You can find more 
information on this in the report.

2

3

THE PAY GAP: 
WHAT IS IT?

PROPORTION RECEIVING BONUS PAY
Out of all employees. 12 Months to 5 April 2017

60% 
of women

45% 
of men

The gender pay gap looks at the difference between the average hourly pay and 
bonuses men and women receive across an organisation. It is not adjusted to take into 
account the different jobs undertaken by male and female colleagues and so it is not  
a like-for-like comparison.

Last year legislation was introduced whereby companies employing more than 250 
colleagues need to report six key areas. Our results below show our mean and median 
gender pay gap (based on hourly rates of pay at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017) and 
the mean and median bonus pay gap (based on bonuses paid in the 12 months to  
5 April 2017).  They also show the proportion of men and women by hourly pay quartile 
and the proportion of men and women who received a bonus.

THE DIFFERENCE
Overall difference between women and men

Hourly Pay: April 2017

Bonus Pay: 12 months to 5 April 2017

Mean

Median

25%

38%

17%

0%

PAY QUARTILES

Male

Female

43%

57%

56%

44%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

11%

71%

29%

89%

A positive number indicates a result in favour of men, and a negative result indicates a result in favour of women.

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

4

5

ANSWERING 
YOUR QUESTIONS

What causes gender pay gaps?
The rail industry has traditionally hired more male workers, and particularly in  
higher paid roles such as train drivers or engineers at our depots. Over 95% of our 
qualified drivers at the time the data was taken were men, although this is changing.  
At Virgin Trains East Coast we’re lucky to have an incredibly loyal workforce, many 
of whom have worked on the network for up to and over 40 years.  However, the 
historically low turnover rate means it will take some time for the pay gap to equalise. 

Another often publicised cause of the pay gap is a lack of women in senior roles, and 
a lack of men in more junior roles.  However, we’re pleased to have a talented 9-strong 
Executive team, 4 of which are women including one on a part-time contract, as we’re 
committed to providing flexible working practices across all grades.

What are our bonus payments?
The definition of bonus payments for gender pay reporting includes productivity, 
performance and incentive payments; commission and payments in cash, vouchers  
and share / share options. 

What’s the difference between the gender pay gap and equal pay?
The gender pay gap reporting looks at the average pay across the whole business 
without taking into account the different jobs, whereas equal pay or roles which  
have an equal value in the business is concerned with ensuring equal pay for female 
and male wages in the same role.

6

Do we have an equal pay problem? 
No.  We are confident in our approach to ensuring men and women are paid on the 
same terms for doing the same roles across the business. It’s the under-representation 
of women in some of our higher paid roles and to a lesser degree of men in more junior 
areas of the business that creates the gender pay gap.

What initiatives do you have to tackle gender pay gaps?
Already, we’ve taken on more female trainee train drivers during our Azuma train 
recruitment campaign - we had a massive 15,000 applicants of which 878 were female.  
After assessment centres, which were transformed from the past to reflect the 
competencies we need for the future, 87 external and 15 internal offers were made of 
which 7 were female. Notably no offers were declined. So we’re absolutely committed 
to taking on the best talent, regardless of gender and source.

All People managers and those involved in recruiting undergo an ‘inclusive leadership’ 
course, focussing on our Virgin values of inclusivity to ensure difference is celebrated 
and to help to prevent bias creeping into the recruitment process.

7

8

