    0161 207 7000   Menu Home Leisure Centres Oldham Leisure Centre Royton Leisure Centre Chadderton Wellbeing Centre Failsworth Sports Centre Saddleworth Pool & Leisure Centre The Radclyffe Athletics Centre Close Memberships Oldham Active Memberships Oldham Active Card Corporate Memberships Oldham’s Exercise Referral Scheme Prices Member Benefits Refer a Friend Offers Active Personal Training Close Activities Gym and Classes Health & Wellbeing Kids Activities Outdoor & Adventure Sports Hall Swim and Sauna Team Sports & Leagues Close Book Online Timetables Oldham Leisure Centre Royton Leisure Centre Chadderton Wellbeing Centre Failsworth Sports Centre Saddleworth Pool & Leisure Centre Close Get In Touch Join Now   X      FREE GUEST PASS Please note a free guest pass is only available to over 16’s.    Select your centre Royton Leisure Centre Saddleworth Leisure Centre Oldham Leisure Centre Chadderton Leisure Centre Failsworth Leisure Centre       About Us Company Details Registered Name: OLDHAM COMMUNITY LEISURE LIMITED Registered Office: Chadderton Wellbeing Centre, 1st Floor Chadderton Wellbeing Centre Burnley Street Chadderton OL9 0JW Company Number: IP29372R Telephone: 0161 207 7000 E-mail: Info@ocll.co.uk  View our Video Annual Report  Oldham Community Leisure Limited Gender Pay Report 2017 The following information is based on 290 members of staff, including full and part time and regular casuals and is based on a snapshot date of 5 th April 2017 linked to the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 for private, voluntary and public sector employers. OCL Gender Pay Report 2017 Overview How OCL is organised The Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day management of OCL’s affairs, and he is accountable to the Board of Directors, who appoints, remove and fix the Chief Executive’s terms and conditions of employment. The Board of Directors ensures that OCL conducts its affairs in accordance with its stated purpose. It sets the policies, strategies and objectives, and then supervises the Chief Executive and his staff who are responsible for delivering them. The Board is accountable to the members through elections and the power of removal. In effect the registered society operates as a leisure trust which offers significant tax advantages and efficiencies which enhance capital re-investment into the facilities. What does OCL do? The company is responsible for the management, operation and development of 11 Sports Centres/Swimming Pools and Synthetic Pitches in Oldham. Since it was formed on 17th November 2002 OCL has operated the facilities in partnership with other agencies to improve the health, well-being, and physical activity for the people of Oldham. The management team have continued to work hard with partners to secure additional funding to improve the leisure stock within Oldham. From small beginnings OCL has: replaced the bowling green carpet at Oldham Sports Centre, refurbished the café at Oldham Sports Centre, replaced the fitness equipment at all its sites, replaced the synthetic pitches at Chapel Road and Royton and Crompton, significantly invested in the Saddleworth complex. Saddleworth saw £2m being invested to create a 55 station fitness suite and dance studio and three small sided 3G pitches. In November 2009 the Chadderton Wellbeing Centre opened including a new swimming pool, 55 station gym and dance studio. The annually reviewed Strategic Performance Plan (SPP) is now embedded in the culture of OCL and focuses on: continuous improvement in quality service delivery, the need to improve the health of Oldhamers, breaking down barriers in communities, offering health and physical activity to target groups in the community. OCL has a Mission Statement of: “a community more active more often” Our vision is to create an environment in which sport, active recreation and leisure are integrated into the lifestyle of all Oldham citizens, in order that community cohesion and health benefits are continually improving. Sport, leisure and active recreational activity will be used as an essential component in supporting and developing the infrastructure of the community and to improve the quality of life both physically and mentally. We will actively work with partner organisations in order to facilitate this development through a better understanding of the issues and a sharing of resources to achieve success. The values of our organisation will be based on the concept of continuous improvement. This will be achieved through the use of external quality recognition schemes including Investors in People and Quest for Facility Management (Based on the European Business Excellence Model). OCL will seek to provide best value in delivering services for which it is responsible. It will deliver its core themes of Health, Adult, Young People and Families, Community Cohesion, the Environment and Quality of life in a context of sustainability, accountability, flexibility and innovation. In order to achieve this mission, representatives of the key stakeholders in OCL, The Management Committee, the management, staff and partners have worked together meeting annually to create a Strategic Performance Plan on which the Company and its Employees can focus on. We are governed strategically by a board of directors who are appointed annually. They meet six times a year including the AGM which is open to shareholders to receive the annual report, the accounts and to vote the directors onto the board. To attend the meetings individuals are required to purchase a share. Shares are available on a non-redeemable, non-transferable preference share costing £20 and available by emailing info@ocll.co.uk . Becoming a Member Membership is open to anybody who is 16 or over, and who is employed by OCL (employee members) or who uses OCL facilities or has an interest in sport and leisure (community members). Admission to become a shareholder is agreed through an approval process undertaken by the Board. Members can attend members meetings, receive information about OCL, vote in the election of Board Members, seek nomination for serving on the Board, and take part in the other member activities which OCL provides. OCL is committed to a number of things, for example carrying on its business for the benefit of the community, retaining (and not distributing) its profits, respecting the rights of people and openness in the way it conducts its affairs. View our latest Shareholder Policy here. Nigel Harrison – Chair Nigel is currently the Chief Executive Officer of Yorkshire Sport Foundation, the sports charity that operates the County Sports Partnerships of West Yorkshire Sport and South Yorkshire Sport. Nigel was the first employee of West Yorkshire Sport since its inception in 2001 and has led the organisation’s growth, transition to a charitable company and alliance with South Yorkshire Sport. Over that time he has been responsible for delivering numerous national and local sports development programmes and has led the writing of various district wide and sports specific plans across the Yorkshire area. He has also led work on behalf of all England’s County Sports Partnerships. Prior to that he held several roles with Calderdale Council including managing The Shay football ground and leading the council’s sports development team. He went to Calderdale from North Warwickshire where he managed a sports centre. He has a BA (Hons) degree in Sport and Recreation Studies along with a Masters of Business Administration degree. Nigel grew up in Hathershaw, attended Fitton Hill Comprehensive School and one of his first jobs was as an attendant at Oldham Sports Centre. He has lived in Royton since 2002. He has a passion for sport regularly playing football and tennis along with recreationally running several times a week. He has completed the Oldham Half Marathon and Oldham 10k in recent years. Kay Wheelton – Vice Chair Kay was born, raised and educated in Oldham until she left to attend Leicester University, returning after graduation to marry and raise her two children. Kay’s business career was with the Co-operative Group in Manchester for over 30 years including senior management role within the Food division, as well as having worked in various marketing and buying roles throughout the management hierarchy. Kay also has a passion for sport and fitness, and the role it has in Oldham. Her involvement started as a primary school pupil, representing the town at swimming going on to swim for Oldham Swimming Club. As a student, her holiday job was at Oldham Stadium and after University; she played in the Oldham netball league for almost twenty years and still plays in the Oldham tennis league. As a mother, Kay has supported her children in every sport they played on Oldham’s pitches, courts and swimming pools. Kay also currently holds a voluntary role on the regional advisory board of the National Trust. Jack Butterworth Jack Butterworth is currently semi- retired. Jack was educated in Oldham, with a Certificate in Marketing from Open University. From 2001 to present Jack has run his own business as a self-employed manufacturer’s agent servicing customers across the north west of England. Jack has previous experience as a National Sales Manager, responsible for recruiting, training and managing a team of between 6 and 8 representatives. Prior to this he spent 20 years with Vitrex Tools Ltd, starting as a representative and becoming northern regional sales manager. Around 1980 Jack joined the “jogging boom” and went on to run several marathons, shorter races and a few fell races. Jack still keeps fit running, cycling and some swimming. Jack also took part in the Oldham half marathon last year and has completed the occasional sprint triathlon, very often as the oldest competitor. Jack is keen to be a part of the OCL Board to support action to encourage older people who lack the confidence to take part under carefully regulated exercise as well as those from the BME community. Lesley Clegg Lesley was one of the original Management Committee staff representatives in 2003 and with five years’ experience on the board Lesley has knowledge and commitment which proves beneficial. As one of the original staff representatives Lesley fought hard to keep the same working conditions OCL had with Oldham Council and will continue to strive for better working environments such as new buildings and technology. Lesley is employed as OCL’s Assistant Finance Manager dealing with the day to day running of finance. Her role is to ensure that staff and creditors are paid on time and that all income is recorded safely and accurately. Lesley’s beliefs and commitment have not changed over the years and she believes that communication is important. Cllr Chris Gloster Chris is a Liberal Democrat Councillor for the ward of Shaw and won his Oldham Council seat for the first time in local elections in May 2015.  Chris is also Shadow Cabinet Member for Health and Wellbeing with responsibilities that include health devolution, public health and improvement. Chris is Shaw born and bred and very proud to represent all residents in the community.  He lives in Fullwood, Shaw, with his wife, Hazel, who works as an education advisor and they have two children. His son is an apprentice mechanic for OMC Ford and his daughter is a pupil at Crompton House school. Chris’ interest in council affairs began during his time served as community police inspector for Shaw and Royton when he worked closely alongside elected local councillors and council officers.  He has also been a school governor for 12 years and is currently serving in this capacity for Crompton House school and East Crompton St James. Chris’ passions in life are helping to make Shaw a great place for people to grow up, live and work, and – when he has time – motorsport. Stuart Lockwood Stuart Lockwood is appointed as a Director ex officio as holder of the office of Chief Executive. He has worked in the industry for over 25 years in the Public, Private and Trust sectors, joining OCL initally in 2009 as Director of Operations before promotion to Chief Executive in 2011. He sits on a number of Oldham Boards and Partnerships including the Health and Wellbeing Board, Oldham Leadership Board and the Oldham Race Equality Partnership, and he is also a Director on the SPORTA Executive Board as the North West regional representative. He takes part in a variety of outdoor challenges and running events every year, as well as regularly playing football and golf. Dr Marisa Logan-Ward Marisa is a passionate and results-driven healthcare professional with expertise in strategy, marketing and public relations. Marisa has demonstrable experience in major change programmes and has worked in diverse healthcare organisations including the Department of Health, NHS Trusts and private hospital groups. She has managed multi-site, multi-discipline organisations and has a reputation for turning board level objectives into measurable outcomes”. Marisa has a Ph.d in Immunology as well as a BSc (Hons) degree in biomedical sciences. Currently working for Unilabs, Marisa is the Business Development Director and has previous experience as Managing, Programme and Group Directors as well as previous experience of marketing, PR and Board level experience. Marisa is a keen sportswoman with particular interests in running, mountain biking and football. Colin Murray Colin is a partner at DWF law firm.  He has a multitude of experience working for public and private sector bodies on local government law and public procurement and hasadvised on a range of joint ventures, major PPP projects and the development of innovative new structures for long term PPPs with public sector equity investment. Cllr Vita Price Cllr Vita Price is a Labour Councillor for the Waterhead ward. Tariq Rafique Tariq is currently the Director of Oldham Race Equality Partnership. The role involves leading on race equality, community cohesion, development of strategic projects working for the betterment of the community. Tariq has over 20 years of experience in the field of community relations and youth developmental work having started his career as a Youth Officer within Oldham. Tariq has also been involved in community initiatives such as Governor at the Waterhead academy and member of the Abaseen Welfare Charity. Tariq graduated from the University of Manchester with a BA Honours Degree in Social Policy. Jo Smallwood Jo has worked for OMBC/OCLL for the past 21 years. She started as a Youth trainee, today’s Modern apprentice and has worked her way up to her current role as General Manager at Oldham Leisure Centre. Within this time she has worked in various different roles, these include receptionist cover, fitness instructor, swim teacher, circuit instructor, pool lifeguard, Duty Manager, Events worker, League Manager, Team Leader and General Manager. This broad background of roles and has given Jo a unique in-site both into the company as it has developed, but also an ability to relate to the frontline pressures associated with these customer facing roles. Jo is a dedicated individual who strives to ensure OCL continues to develop as well as all the teams within. She has a hands on pro-active approach with all of the sites and staff that she manages. Jo is a very approachable person with excellent communication skills, with staff often approaching her for advice or with ideas of their own on how OCL as a company can develop. Jo has good relations with all staff levels including higher management and existing board members. Jo is able to provide a vital communication link between the “rank & file” viewpoints and the Board, whilst considering the wider company strategy. Mackenzie Wright  Mackenzie has joined the OCL board as a staff representative. He is currently based at Failsworth Sports Centre as the sites Fitness Team Leader but has previously worked across OCL in a number of positions. He is a firm believer in the powers of exercise & activity. He has always enjoyed taking part in sports most predominately basketball, but recently completing the Yorkshire 3 Peaks challenge and signing up to the Milltown to Moors race series and National 3 Peaks challenge. Since joining OCL, Mackenzie has completed courses to further his understanding of the Leisure & Fitness industry. He is currently undertaking a course in Management & holds BSc Hons degree in Sports and Exercise Science form Leeds Metropolitan University. Minutes of Board meetings are available to Shareholders upon request. You can contact OCL or its Directors via info@ocll.co.uk or by writing to: c/o Chadderton Wellbeing Centre, Burnley Street, Chadderton, OL9 0JW. Page updated – January 2018  Join Today Book Online View Timetables  Latest Offer More than just a gym FREE induction and welcome pack when you join  Find out more about our memberships  Latest event Milltown Races Find out details of when our next race is and how you can enter  Find out more Get in Touch Please contact us using the form below and send us a message. Alternatively you can telephone our Contact Team on 0161 207 7000 . We look forward to hearing from you. **Please note this form is for general enquiries only and should not be used for membership cancellations or freezes, please email info@ocll.co.uk**          User / Member Type: Monthly Yearly  Active Leisure Centre: Chadderton Failsworth Oldham Royton Saddleworth        About Us Partners and Policies Vacancies Training FAQ’s News   M60 Athletics Academy  The Athletics 365 Academy: Oldham will restart Wednesday 18th April 2018.
I am pleased to confirm that the coaching staff remain committed ...click here to read more...   Race for Life Oldham  ﻿
 
This year we’ve partnered up with Cancer Research UK to bring the Race for Life to Alexandra Park, Oldham.
The Oldham 5k will ta ...click here to read more...   Winter Walking Week 2018!  Greater Manchester Walking Week
17–25 February 2018
Walking Week is back and there are walks to suit everyone's interests. Get a view fr ...click here to read more...   Newsletter Sign-up     Cookie Policy Privacy Policy T’s and C’s Site Map   Oldham Community Leisure is a proud member organisation of GM Active  Copyright 2018 Oldham Active Website Development by Cornerstone DM Menu Navigation Oldham Community Leisure Home Leisure Centres Oldham Leisure Centre Royton Leisure Centre Chadderton Wellbeing Centre Failsworth Sports Centre Saddleworth Pool & Leisure Centre The Radclyffe Athletics Centre Back Memberships Oldham Active Memberships Oldham Active Card Corporate Memberships Oldham’s Exercise Referral Scheme Prices Member Benefits Refer a Friend Offers Active Personal Training Back Activities Gym and Classes Health & Wellbeing Kids Activities Outdoor & Adventure Sports Hall Swim and Sauna Team Sports & Leagues Back Book Online Timetables Oldham Leisure Centre Royton Leisure Centre Chadderton Wellbeing Centre Failsworth Sports Centre Saddleworth Pool & Leisure Centre Back Get In Touch Join Now