ALLIANZ GLOBAL CORPORATE & SPECIALTY  WWW.AGCS.ALLIANZ.COM

ALLIANZ GLOBAL CORPORATE & SPECIALTY (AGCS)

2017 GENDER  
PAY GAP REPORT

MARCH 2018

This year, for the first time, all public and 
private sector organisations in the UK with 
more than 250 employees are required to 
publish specific figures about their gender 
pay gap. In this, our first report, the mean 
gender pay gap for AGCS in the UK is 36% 
and the median pay gap is 39%.
 
We’re not where we want to be and we 
want to change that. Our gender pay gap 
isn’t because AGCS pays men more than 
women for equal work (Pay Equality); it’s 
because we have fewer women than men 
in senior roles in the business, and that’s 
where we need to focus our efforts. We 
know that we have more to do to attract 
more women to or back to the company 
and wider industry. We also need to create 
more opportunities for women to fulfil their 
career aspirations within AGCS.
 
We’ve been working hard over the past 
number of years, on a range of initiatives, 
to ensure we improve the percentage of 
women in senior positions in the most 
comprehensive and sustainable way 
possible - through a focus on our talent 
pipeline. We are:
•   Investing in our talent pipeline and 

succession programmes through 
advocacy, mentoring and tailored 
training programmes

•   Making flexible working easier through 

our ‘Agile Working’ initiative and our 
partnership with MyFamilyCare

•   Changing our approach to our long-

term recruitment from unconscious bias 
training to posting our vacancies on 
websites directed at professional women

 

We’re also working with partners, market 
bodies and other organisations – including 
The Women’s Insurance Network 
(TWIN), Dive In Festival and the London 
Market Group (LMG) via its Ambassador 
programme –  to fast-track the change 
required to support the development of 
women into senior roles and help promote 
the insurance market to a new generation 
of talent.

By building a company that is diverse 
and inclusive and which better reflects 
the society we operate in, we’ll be best 
placed to understand and respond to an 
increasingly diverse pool of customers 
and markets. By creating an environment 
where people from every background 
can thrive, we’ll also make AGCS a more 
engaging, interesting and rewarding place 
to be.

Brian Kirwan AGCS UK CEO. 

AGCS employs 427 people in the 
UK, and is the Allianz Group’s 
dedicated carrier for corporate 
and specialty insurance business.  
www.agcs.allianz.com 

WHY REPORT NOW  
ON GENDER PAY?

The Gender Pay Reporting 
legislation in the UK came into 
force in April 2017.  
It requires employers with 250 
or more employees to report 
annually on six  
key measures:

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

 Mean gender pay gap 
– difference between 
average hourly earnings of 
men and women.
 Median gender pay gap 
– difference between the 
midpoints in the ranges of 
hourly earnings of men and 
women.
 Mean bonus gap – as 
above, but looking at 
average bonuses paid 
rather than salary.
 Median bonus gap – as 
above but for bonuses 
rather than salary.
 Bonus eligibility gap 
– proportion of males 
receiving a bonus payment 
and proportion of females 
receiving a bonus payment.
 Quartile pay bands – the 
proportions of males and 
females in the lower, lower 
middle, upper middle and 
upper pay quartiles.

GENDER DISTRIBUTION 
BY PAY QUARTILE

The charts below illustrate 
the gender distribution 
across AGCS in the UK in 
four equally sized quartiles. 
The pay gaps identified 
are a reflection of the 
demographics of AGCS 
in the UK and our overall 
under-representation of 
women in more senior roles 
within the organisation.  

 Female %     

 Male %

12%
88%

28%
72%

45%
55%

56%
44%

Q4

Highest

Q3

Q2

Q1

Lowest

PAY EQUALITY AT AGCS 

‘Equal pay’ and the ‘gender pay gap’ both deal with the levels of pay between 
males and females at work, but they are two different measures. 

Equal pay refers to the obligation to pay men and women the same for the 
same or similar work or for work of equal value. We have robust processes 
to ensure that males and females are paid equally for equivalent jobs across 
AGCS in the UK.

An organisation may have equal pay but still have a gender pay gap. The 
gender pay gap figures show that men earn more than women – not because we 
are paying men more than women for equal work, but because there are fewer 
women employed in more senior, higher paid roles. 

GENDER PAY GAP

AGCS GENDER PAY GAP FIGURES: 

The gender pay gap measures  
the difference between male and  
female average hourly earnings  
and is expressed as a percentage 
of men’s pay. 

The gender pay gap is reported  
on both a mean (average) and  
median basis. 

INDUSTRY GENDER PAY GAP

36%MEAN PAY GAP
39%

MEDIAN PAY GAP

According to the Office for National Statistics (ONS), December 2016, the overall 
UK gender pay gap is 18% for workers across all industries. The insurance sector 
is reported to have a gap of around 47% (Total Reward Group (2016) based on 
17 insurance companies employing 12,327 people). 

These graphs shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on 
hourly rates of pay (as at 5 April 2017).

Having fewer women in senior roles in our business currently is reflected in the 
36% overall mean figure. 

 AGCS     

 Industry1     

 National

47%

36%

18%

39%

37%

30%

OVERALL MEAN

OVERALL MEDIAN

1 Total reward group (2016) based on 17 insurance companies employing 12,327 people

BONUS PAY

The image on the right 
shows our median and 
mean bonus gender pay 
gap in the 12 months 
leading to 5 April 2017. 

The mean bonus pay gap 
of 65% is again due in large 
part to having fewer women 
in senior positions. 

The median bonus gap is 
much smaller as it’s less 
affected by outliers in the 
top quartile. 

PROPORTION OF ALL EMPLOYEES 
RECEIVING A BONUS:

94%MALE
93%

FEMALE

MEDIAN BONUS GAP 46%

MEAN BONUS GAP 65%

WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ADDRESS THE GAP?

and forums which actively support 
our people in achieving their full 
potential. We also have active 
programmes to encourage ‘flexible’ 
and ‘agile’ working to give employees 
increased control over their work/life 
balance. AGCS recently announced 
a partnership with My Family Care 
to offer enhanced benefits that help 
our employees that have caring 
responsibilities to balance work and life.
 
We recognise there is more to do to 
close the gap by focusing on our talent 
pipeline – the future of AGCS. We also 
recognise that we don’t have all the 
answers. The table overleaf gives you a 
snapshot of our current activity.

Simply reporting numbers won’t 
change things. It’s essential for the 
ongoing success of AGCS that we 
attract, develop and retain the best 
talent available. 

We have been actively working to 
create greater gender equality for a 
number of years now, well in advance 
of gender pay gap reporting, so 
what we’re doing isn’t a knee-jerk 
reaction. We already have a number 
of activities in place to support our 
commitment to gender equality 
and drive our talent pipeline – from 
unconscious bias training through to 
ensuring diversity is reflected in our 
recruitment process.
 
Networking and development 
programmes, such as the Allianz 
Women in the City and the new 
JET Women’s programme, connect 
leaders with rising female talent 

ATTRACT

AGCS works with partners  in the London insurance market to position the industry as an  
attractive employer:
•   We’ve boosted our profile in the media (including Insurance Post magazine and Employee Benefits 

magazine), on the ways in which AGCS is embedding flexibility to attract, retain and develop the 
best possible workforce 

•   We’re increasing our presence at key industry events – speaking at and sponsoring events 

including The Women in Insurance Network (TWIN), Dive In Festival, The Supper Club, Women 
in the Square Mile, The POWER (Opening doors for women event), Deloitte “How do you do it 
partnership” (Breakfast event) 

•   All of our vacancies are posted on websites directed at professional women, including:   

www.wearethecity.com, www.vercida.com 

•   Our UK Diversity Council meets regularly and includes representatives from across the business. 
The Diversity Council runs many events throughout the year including for local school children to 
support them with the skills students need to start their careers

RECRUIT

•   We’re reviewing the language of job postings to ensure they are phrased in a way that is inclusive 

in conjunction with www.texteo.com

•   We’re addressing unconscious bias in our recruitment practices through tailored workshops 

delivered for Leadership teams and people managers throughout AGCS

DEVELOP

•   The AGCS annual talent review process ensures equity in assessment of potential  

and performance.  We build on our female talent pipeline by ensuring nominations  
to talent programmes

•   AGCS runs or participates in a number of training, networking and sponsorship programs tailored 

to support women in their career development (JET program, RADA ‘Communicating with 
presence’ and ‘negotiation skills for women’ training)

•   UK Mentoring program (launched in 2017) aims to match mentors and mentees from different 

parts of the business, forming an integral part of our approach of building our talent pool
•   AGCS is represented on the Allianz Group’s ‘Women’s sponsorship forum’ – Senior leaders  

sponsor the professional development of selected, high-performing employees with a  
particular focus on women

•   We encourage and support participation in market networks and external events, including: The 

Gender Inclusion Network, Supper Club, Women in the City

RETAIN

•    We have introduced more flexible work patterns and ‘agile’ working practices
•   Our partnership with My Family Care provides support and resources to support all those with 
‘caring’ responsibilities within AGCS. My Family Care’s online platform provides managers and 
employees with wraparound support to manage leave and return from parental leave

•   We highlight career opportunities through sharing stories, via internal communications of varied 

careers by our team members

Copyright © 2018 Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE. All rights reserved. The material contained in this publication is designed to provide 
general information only. While every effort has been made to ensure that the information provides is accurate, this information is provided 
without any representation or warranty of any kind about its accuracy and Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE cannot be held responsible 
for any mistakes or omissions. All descriptions of coverage are subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the individual policy.

