KOBALT MUSIC GROUP LIMITED 
Gender Pay Report 
April 2018 

 
 

 

Introduction 

To help tackle gender pay differences, last year the UK government brought in legislation, The Equality 
Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017,  requiring  greater  transparency  in  the 
average pay between genders.  

The legislation required all companies with 250 or more UK employees to publish information about 
their gender pay gap. In April 2017, 267 employees were employed by Kobalt Music Group Limited in 
the UK and this is our report. 

Our commitment to diversity 

Kobalt insists on fair, non-discriminative treatment for all employees, in recruitment and in selection for 
promotion  or  training  opportunities,  irrespective  of  race,  colour,  nationality,  age,  sex,  ethnic  origin, 
marital status, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, disability or religion. We have recently set up 
an employee-led Diversity and Inclusion Committee to help us here. 

Summary 

As a result of our continued effort to enhance our employee programmes, Kobalt’s People & Culture 
team review, evaluate, and continuously enhance our employee programmes and practices around 
hiring and career progression. We are confident that we are complying with the law as gender does not 
play  a  part  in  our  decisions  when  it comes to  remunerating  equivalent  jobs,  recruitment  or  making 
promotions. 

Nevertheless, we have a gender pay gap. We can see that the gap is caused mainly by the fact that we 
have more men than women in senior roles and in certain parts of our business. Despite this not being 
particularly unusual in the music industry - a survey by UK Music1 published last year shows that women 
are disproportionately under-represented in senior roles across our industry – we don’t like it.  

Something being normal does not mean that it should stay that way. Whilst we know changes will not 
happen overnight we know that we, and the industry, have some work to do. 

The good news is that the work has already started at Kobalt. We can see that since April 2017 our 
gender pay gap has decreased so the numbers are heading in the right direction.   

It is also clear that being a woman is certainly no barrier to reaching the top at Kobalt. Those in the 
industry know that A&R is often a male-dominated area, but we are pleased to be bucking that trend as 
our Head of Creative in the UK and our Chief Creative Officer, are both women. Women also head up 
our global Neighbouring Rights and Synch businesses, as well as our global People & Culture function.  
                                                             
1 https://www.ukmusic.org/equality-diversity/uk-music-diversity-survey-results/  

 
 
Just a few months ago, we were lucky enough to welcome on board Avid Larizadeh Duggan from GV 
as Chief Strategy and Business Officer. 

We also know that gender pay gaps can be created where there is a lack of support for women who 
want to start or expand their families. In this respect we offer what we believe is a generous enhanced 
maternity pay package of 13 weeks at full pay and a further 13 weeks at half pay - substantially more 
than the legally required minimum. We also have clear and fair policies on flexible working and welcome 
those who want to balance work with family responsibilities. 

A year-long snapshot of our numbers and how we interpret them is included below, along with our action 
plan. 

Our gender pay gap 

As of 5th April 2017, Kobalt Music Group Limited’s workforce was 63% male and 37% female. 

These  figures  are  led  by  the  make-up  of  our  technology  function.  The  following  table  shows  the 
breakdown  between  men  and  women  across  the  technology  parts  of  our  business  and  the  non-
technology side. Outside of technology we have much more balance. 

 

 

Male 
Female 

KMG 
63% 
37% 

Technology 

Non-Technology 

86% 
14% 

52% 
48% 

On 5th April 2017 the gender pay gap in hourly rates was: 

Mean Average Gap 
19.74% 

 

Median Average Gap 
16.35% 

The UK average across all employers is around 10-20% depending on which measurements you use. 

We are pleased to say that the gap has already reduced and the figures for February 2018 are: 

Mean Average Gap 
12.58% 

Median Average Gap 
11.2% 

 
As set out above, we do not believe that women are paid differently because of their gender in respect 
to equivalent jobs. The gap arises primarily from us having more men in senior roles. This can be seen 
from our pay quartiles where we can see that men are disproportionately represented in the top 25% of 
earners: 

April 2017 
Top Quartile 
Upper 
Quartile 
Lower 
Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Middle 

Middle 

Men 
75% 
57.8% 

Women  Mean Gender Pay Gap 
25% 
42.2% 

18.00% 
-2.32% 

Median Gender Pay Gap 
18.42% 
0.00% 

60.9% 

39.1% 

2.91% 

1.79% 

57.8% 

42.2% 

3.58% 

6.85% 

 
The full picture is shown by the information in the two right hand columns above.  We can see that 

 
 
within the lower three pay quartiles there is hardly any difference, on average, between pay for men 
and women.   

 

 

Whilst there is a gap in the top quartile we have already significantly reduced or negated it. The same 
figures for February 2018 are: 

February 2018 

Top Quartile 
Upper Middle 
Quartile 
Lower Middle 
Quartile 
Lower Quartile 
Total 

 

Mean Gender 
Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

-11.82% 

-0.16% 

0.51% 

2.58% 
12.58% 

6.58% 

0.00% 

0.00% 

6.25% 
11.20% 

The figures for April 2017 show that our overall gender pay gap is driven mainly from the highest pay 
quartile, which is more male-dominated than the others. In the other quartiles, which are more evenly 
gender  balanced,  pay  gaps  are  much  less  or  are  in  favour  of  women.  This  tells  us  that  unequal 
distribution of men and women through our business is the main driver of our gender pay gap. 

In relation to bonuses paid in the year up to 5th April 2017 our numbers are: 

Mean Average Gap 
40.4% 

Median Average Gap 
0.00% 

 
And 24.8% of men received a bonus, whilst 43.2% of women receive a bonus. 

To attract and retain the best senior people in the music industry, those at the top of our organisation 
have more opportunity to earn discretionary bonuses depending on the results of the business. As a 
result, given we have more men than women in senior roles, the gender bonus gap arises. Apart from 
that, Kobalt does not operate a bonus scheme and this is reflected in the median bonus gap of 0%. 
Outside  of  that  bonuses  are  sometimes  awarded  on  an  ad  hoc  and  discretionary  basis,  where 
performance merits it or where it is warranted as part of overall remuneration and reward. 

Action Points 

In the year since the snapshot was taken, our gender pay gap has been reduced, but there is still more 
we can do.   

The fact is that we do have more men than women in senior roles. We are confident that all our senior 
employees  are  there  on  merit  and  experience,  irrespective  of  gender.  We  want  to  ensure  that  we 
continue to have the best people in place and that we do not miss out on talent simply because of 
unconscious or affinity bias. To this end we are taking the following actions: 

1.  Our policy will be to ensure that, wherever possible, a gender diverse panel is convened to 
decide on promotions and recruitment, including our upcoming fiscal year end budget reviews. 

2.  We have hired two Learning & Development professionals to help us meet the training and 
development  needs  of  all  employees,  which  in  turn will  help  ongoing  progress  through  our 
organisation. 
 

3.  Build a leadership programme to enhance the development of women in in senior roles. 

4.  We are working with our employee-led UK Diversity and Inclusion Committee to discuss further 

 
 

 

 

initiatives. 
 

5.  A diverse group of executives from the senior management team will form a global diversity 

group to ensure focus and direction is led from the top. 

 

Thank you for taking the time to read our report. 

We confirm that Kobalt’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of The 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

…………………………………………………………………. 

James Fitzherbert-Brockholes 

Director 

 

 

