GENDER PAY GAP 

DOCUMENTATION 2017

KRM Gender Pay Gap 2017

KRM Team Demographics

Gender Pay Gap legislation, under the Equality Act 2010, stipulates that 
companies in England, Scotland and Wales with 250 or more employees 
on the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 are required to carry out mandatory 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting. KRM (GB) Ltd employed 331 members of sta(cid:31)  on 
the snapshot date, and therefore the relevant calculations have been made 
and are supported by this narrative, where we will also provide the actions 
we are taking to improve our results. 

1

KRM Gender Pay Gap Results

For the above, a positive % indicates the extent to which women, on aver-
age, earn less an hour than their male counterparts.  

Within KRM, the mean pay (cid:30) gures are a(cid:31) ected by:

Higher pay of our senior management within the UK.  As only          

• 
           24% of our workforce is male, higher paid male senior 
           management distort the results. Excluding the London Head O(cid:29)  ce, 
           the mean pay gap is 4.3% vs. 11.0% listed above 

27% of our store management are male, meaning the 

• 
           sample size for male salaried management sta(cid:31)  is small.  
           All non-salaried sta(cid:31) , i.e. sta(cid:31)  that are paid hourly, are 
           standardised across all stores based on store-region.

• 

81% of our part time workers are female.  

These statistics will contribute to the gap shown above, though KRM are 
happy to be below the National Average.

2

Gender Bonus Pay Gap

This information is based on a 12-month reference period up until 5th April 
2017.

KRM has a 0% Bonus Median Gap, meaning that the median woman is 
paid the same as the median man, whilst the Bonus Mean Gap is negative, 
meaning that on average a woman within KRM is paid more than a man in 
terms of bonus.  At the beginning of 2017, relocation of head o(cid:29)  ce meant 
that the majority of central management were new, and therefore the re-
sults are driven by cumulative bonus results of senior retail management, 
who were primarily women, in 2016 and 2017.
The proportion of women receiving a bonus in KRM is broadly the same as 
that of men.

3

Gender Demographic Per Quartile

The above information re(cid:28) ects that for KRM 76.1% of our workforce is female, 
and therefore women are represented more than men within each quartile 
of the business, though there is a reduction in this representation as you move 
through the seniority of the company.

4

KRM’s Planned Approach to Improve the Gender Pay Gap

Considering the high turnover in a retail environment, KRM will continue to 
assess and ensure that the recruitment policies that are in place promote a 
fair hiring process, and that the reward and recognition for all employees, old 
and new, is equal and fair across all the regions that KRM operates in.  

Ensuring programmes such as (cid:28) exible working and reduced hours are in 
place will assist women who do wish to return to work a(cid:27) er maternity leave, 
and KRM will endeavor to upskill managers on the bene(cid:30) ts on having a var-
ied and (cid:28) exible team within their stores.

We con(cid:31) rm that our data has been calculated according to the require-
ments of the Equality Act 2010.  The information contained herein is con-
(cid:31) rmed as accurate by Gerd Rahbek-Clemmensen, Director, KRM (GB) Ltd.

5

