Gender pay 
gap report
April 2017

Gender pay 
gap report
April 2017

Here at Bromford

47%

of our colleagues 
are male

Our average 
gender pay gap is

7.1%

53%

of our colleagues 
are female

compared to the
UK average
in 2016
9.4%

Here  we  set  out  more  detail  of  our  gender 
pay gap and bonus pay gap along with the 
number  of  male  and  female  colleagues  in 
each  quartile  of  our  pay  ranges.  Then  we   
explain what we think the reasons are for the 
differences.

Hourly rates of pay

By law, we are required to publish data regarding our mean and median 
gender pay gap information. The mean is our average pay. This is 
calculated by adding up all our salaries and dividing by the number of  
colleagues. The median is the middle value in our pay. This value is 
calculated by organising all of our salaries in order and picking the middle 
number.

Our mean gender pay gap is 7.1%

colleagues572
£16.62

hourly rate

colleagues563
£15.44

hourly rate

Our median gender pay gap is 11.4 %

colleagues572
£13.99

hourly rate

colleagues563
£12.40

hourly rate

Pay bands

Below is the summary split of where men and women sit in terms of the 
quartile pay bands. We listed the salary of every colleague in order and split 
the list into four equal parts to give us our quartiles A, B, C and D.

Band 
A

Band 
B

£15,378 - £19,689

£19,692 - £25,000

37%

63%

30%

70%

Band 

C

Band 

D

£25,000 - £30,942

£31,036 - £176,750

66%

34%

56%

44%

The above table shows that there is higher 

proportion of women in Bands A and B, whereas 

Bands C and D have a higher 

percentage of men.

Bonus

Here are the number of men and women eligible for bonus, as a 
percentage of the total headcount.

91%

receiving bonus

receiving bonus 94%

colleagues491
£855.39

mean bonus

colleagues590
£850.51

mean bonus

median bonus

£1,000

Every eligible colleague was paid a flat rate bonus of £1000 based on 

our overall performance in customer satisfaction and financial results. This 
was paid pro rata for part time colleagues and new starters (less than 12 
months). Of our part-time colleagues who were eligible for bonus, 21% are 

female compared to only 3% male. Bonus data also includes one male 

colleague and one female colleague who earned commission.

More about our data 
• Pay data comes from our April 2017 payroll
•  Bonus data is based on bonus payments for the 12 months previous to 05 April 2017.
•  Full pay equivalent colleagues are colleagues who are NOT on reduced pay due to sick or 

maternity leave.

More about Bromford and our gender pay gap

Bromford’s approach to valuing equality and diversity supports our core purpose of 
inspiring people to be their best. 

We’re big believers in treating people on merit so whatever their background, 
gender or circumstances, we treat everyone fairly and work with them to help 
them achieve their potential. And that’s not just our approach during employment 
but at the recruitment stage too.

What are the factors affecting some of the pay difference? 

We know the majority of colleagues who return from a career break choose 
to come back on part-time hours. At Bromford 26% of women are part-time 
compared to 7% of men.

We also know our roles in repairs and maintenance trades have historically been 
more male dominated and these roles also tend to do more variable hours or 
overtime which therefore has an impact on the hourly rate. 12% of male and 5% of 
female colleagues earn additional payments for overtime, standby and callouts.

Changes to our business focus mean we’re bringing more trade services in-house, 
as well as more construction and development roles, all of which have traditionally 
tended to have mainly full-time male colleagues. However the female colleagues 
working in our repairs, gas and landscaping teams are now helping us attract an 
increasing number of women to these professions.

We’re proud to say that colleagues generally choose to stay at Bromford as they 
recognise us as a fair employer who takes equality seriously. Colleagues who have 
been with us for many years are likely to have progressed further up their pay 
ranges. For historical reasons, especially where colleagues have transferred to us 
from council following stock transfer, more of these tend to be men than women. 

Our chief executive Philippa Jones and one half of our non - executive directors 
bring strong female leadership to Bromford. You can find out more about them by 
visiting Leadership and governance on our website

We’re also very pleased to have five female colleagues working in our repairs, gas 
and landscaping teams and we’re keen to attract more. Here’s what a couple of 
them have to say about working at Bromford:
Sarah Shepherdson

Natasha Ford

As a gas engineer, I worked at a large utility 
provider before joining Bromford but I have 
to say my experience hasn’t changed. I’m 
treated exactly the same. I have a great team. 
In my early days colleagues would try to help 
me, such as lifting the boiler, and I’d have to 
tell them to put it down and move out the way! 
They’ve got to know me now so they just let 
me get on with it.”

I’ve been an electrician for over ten years 
and I’m just coming to up to my first year at 
Bromford. I’m really happy here. I work in a 
team of all men but I’m treated fairly and if 
anything I probably get more respect being a 
woman. Colleagues are very approachable 
and it’s a nice place to be.”

