Board Meeting 23 March 2018 – Item 9b 

  

  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017   
  
Introduction  
  
As an employer with over 250 employees Royal Russell School is required to publish a Gender 
Pay report on our website and on the government’s online reporting service by 4 April 2018.  The 
data snapshot below is based on the School payroll as at April 2017.   In accordance with the 
regulations, certain sets of data are required to be published:  
  

•  The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay between male and female employees.   
•  The difference between the median hourly rate of pay between male and female 

employees.  

•  The proportions of male and female employees in each of four equal pay quartiles.   

  
The school did not pay any bonuses in the reporting period, so this requirement is not applicable.   
 
Royal Russell School employs all staff directly and does not outsource any provision to external 
companies or contractors. This means that the gender pay gap data represented in this paper is an 
accurate reflection of all employees working at Royal Russell School. 
  
Gender Pay Gap Results  
  
The gender pay gap for Royal Russell School, as at April 2017, was 15% (Mean) and 11% 
(Median).  
  
The proportion of male and female employees at Royal Russell School, in each quartile was as 
follows:   
  

  

Male Staff  
Female Staff  
Total  

  

  

  

  

Percentage 
of Male Staff  

Percentage 
of Female 
Staff  

Lower 
Quartile 

Lower 
Middle 
Quartile 

Upper 
Middle 
Quartile 

Upper 
Quartile 

Total 

26  
51  
77  
  

19  
58  
77  
  

  

34% 

25% 

66% 

75% 

  

17  
60  
77  

22% 

78% 

40  
38  
78  

51% 

49% 

102  
207  
309  

33% 

67%  

  
 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

Board Meeting 23 March 2018 – Item 9b 

 
The Gender Pay Gap is defined as a measure of the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in the School regardless of job role, and can be explained as a broad measure of 
pay inequalities resulting from the differences in the sorts of jobs performed by men and women.  It 
is not a measure of equal pay which is about differences between individuals or groups of staff 
performing similar work.  
  
An analysis of the Royal Russell School four pay quartiles shows:  
 

In the lower quartile (the lowest paid), there are 51 women (66%) and 26 men (34%).  The 
vast majority of roles in this quartile are occupied by domestic services staff and catering 
staff.  This quartile also includes many part-time and term-time roles.   

  

  

  

In the lower middle quartile there are 58 women (75%) and 19 men (25%).  This group 
holds many of the teaching support roles such as Teaching Assistants and Technical staff, 
together with many of the office based support roles essential to the effective running of the 
School.  Many of these roles are employed on a term-time only basis.  This quartile also 
includes many Newly Qualified Teachers (NQT) or staff employed as NQTs 1 or 2 years 
ago.  

The upper middle quartile contains 60 women (78%) and 17 men (22%) and includes the 
vast majority of teachers as well as the more senior support staff.  Some staff in this 
quartile receive additional allowances for departmental or boarding responsibilities.    

In the upper pay quartile (the highest paid) the split between each gender is almost equal 
with 38 women and 40 men.  The majority of these roles include Heads of Department in 
both teaching and support roles, and senior leadership team roles, plus those staff with 
significant boarding responsibilities.   

  
Conclusion  
  
Royal Russell School ensures that all staff receive equal pay for equal work regardless of gender.  
Teaching staff are remunerated on an incremental pay scale that includes allowances for specific 
responsibilities and rewards them for their professional performance and wider contribution to the 
School.   
 
Support staff pay is determined via a process of internal evaluation/job ranking and is regularly 
reviewed and benchmarked on a national and local basis to ensure that pay correctly reflects the 
value and complexity of the work undertaken.   
 
Male and female staff at Royal Russell School are treated equally on appointment and throughout 
their careers at the School.  
  
  
  

 
C J Hutchinson  
Headmaster  
March 2018  

 

  

Page 2 of 2 

