 

 

 
 
Gender Pay Gap Report  

 
Report for the year 2016-17  

 

Background 

 
The Department for International Trade (DIT) has prepared this report as part of the new legal 
requirement for public authorities to publish their gender pay gap on an annual basis. 
 
Earlier this year, the Government introduced world-leading legislation that made it statutory for 
organisations with 250 or more employees to report annually on their gender pay gap. Government 
departments are covered by the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public 
Authorities) Regulations 2017 which came into force on 31 March 2017. These regulations 
underpin the Public Sector Equality Duty and require the relevant organisations to publish their 
gender pay gap data by 30 March 2018 (and then annually), including mean and median gender 
pay gaps; the mean and median gender bonus gaps; the proportion of men and women who 
received bonuses; and the proportions of male and female employees in each pay quartile.  
  
The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women in a 
workforce. If a workforce has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can indicate there may be a 
number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations may help to identify what those issues 
are. 
  
The gender pay gap is different to equal pay. Equal pay deals with the pay differences between 
men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to 
pay people unequally because they are a man or a woman. 
  
DIT supports the fair treatment and reward of all staff irrespective of gender. In October 2017 the 
new Civil Service Diversity and Inclusion Strategy was published. This important document sets out 
new programmes and initiatives to realise our ambition to become the UK's most inclusive 
employer by 2020. The Civil Service, including DIT, wants to create a diverse and representative 
workplace – one that will attract talented people from all backgrounds, and give everyone, including 
those already working for us, the opportunity to achieve their potential. 
 
This report fulfils the Department’s reporting requirements, analyses the figures in more detail and 
sets out what we are doing to close the gender pay gap in the organisation. 

 

 

Analysis 
 
Context 
 
DIT is one of Whitehall’s newest Departments, created in July 2016 following the EU Exit 
referendum result. We have overall responsibility for developing, coordinating and delivering a new 
trade and investment policy for the UK, including preparing for and then negotiating Free Trade 
Agreements and market access deals with non- EU countries, and promoting UK exports and 
investment across the world. We are a department for the whole of the UK and we work with 
business partners across the country. 

 
The 2017 Gender Pay Gap analysis includes only those staff deemed to be full paid relevant 
employees based in the UK, on DIT payroll. As at 31 March 2017, 44% of staff on DIT payroll (and 
included in this analysis) were women. 

The gender pay gap analysis provided in this report is based on the methodology set out in the 
Equality Act (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

Ordinary Pay 
 

The mean gender pay gap (the difference between men’s and women’s average hourly pay) is 
3.6% and the median gender pay gap is 2.7%. 

 

The department’s pay gap is significantly lower than the Civil Service average (mean pay gap 11% 
and median pay gap 12.7%) as per the Office for National Statistics, March 2017. However, it 
should be noted this is not directly comparable in terms of methodology. 

Bonus Pay 
 

DIT offers both an in-year reward scheme and performance awards to staff marked as “Exceeded” 
in any annual performance year.  

 

For this analysis, in year reward and end of year bonus payments made in the 12 months ending 
31 March were included. DIT performance awards for the 2015-16 performance year were paid as 
a set value depending on grade and performance level.  

The mean gender bonus gap (difference between men and women) is -14.4% and the median 
gender bonus gap is 3.1%. 31% of females received a bonus payment, compared to 27% of men.  

 
Male vs Female 

 

 

4 

 

 

The fact that the mean gender bonus pay gap favours females suggests that the pay gap has been 
affected by extreme values, i.e. high bonus payments received by small numbers of high-earning 
females.  

End of year performance awards and in-year awards in DIT are not pro-rated for part time staff (so 
these staff receive the full value of the bonus). Therefore, the bonus pay gap is not affected by the 
number of part time staff in either gender.  

 
Hourly pay quartiles 
 

The hourly pay quartile data shows the proportion of men and women that are in each pay quartile, 
when we arrange staff in order of hourly pay rate. In DIT, the proportions of male vs. female staff 
are relatively stable throughout each quartile. 

 
Percentage of males and female in each pay quartile 
 

 

Gender balance at different grades is one of the main contributing factors to an organisation’s 
gender pay gap. In terms of gender representation the difference between DIT’s overall gender 
breakdown and the upper quartile is negligible: 1% in favour of males. This small difference could 
perhaps be attributed to the fact that nearly 50% of senior appointments since DIT was formed 
have been women. 

 

 

 

 
 

5 

 

Actions 

Although DIT’s gender pay gap for 2017 is well below the Civil Service average, the department is 
committed to continuing to reduce the overall gap. This is demonstrated through the following 
initiatives: 

  Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Action Plan 

In support of the Civil Service Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, DIT is developing a 
departmental level Action Plan to focus on four themes: Leadership, Talent, Recruitment and 
Culture. The DIT D&I Action Plan will be linked to the overarching departmental People Plan. 
The People Plan is a vision to make DIT a GREAT place to work across seven cross cutting 
themes: 
  Managing and Leadership 
  People and Development 
  Organisational and Alignment 
  Global Communications 
  Values and Behaviours 
  Environment, Tools and Resources 
  Pay, Benefits and Rewards 

Our Diversity and Inclusion Committee will review and monitor our progress against the 
Diversity & Inclusion Action Plan. Our DIT leadership team are also spearheading these 
initiatives to show the seriousness with which we take them. 
 

  Staff Networks 

The D&I Action plan will work alongside our new formal support networks, which provide advice 
and training to the business and their members. The support networks include a Parents 
Network, Religion/Belief Network, a Disability Network, a Race Network, a Social Mobility 
Network, an Age Network, an EU Nationals Network, an Ethnicity Network, an LGBT Network, a 
cross cutting D&I Network and of course a Women’s Network. All Diversity Network Groups 
helps us to advertise DIT talent activities to potential candidates from under-represented 
groups.  
 

  Crossing Thresholds 

This is a female specific 12-month career mentoring programme for women who want to 
develop their career in a structured and supportive environment. 
 

  Enhanced development opportunities 

Further to the specific Crossing Thresholds programme, DIT engages in a number of talent 
activities to provide women with enhanced development opportunities. As part of the 2017 
Future Leaders Scheme (FLS)/Senior Leaders Scheme (SLS) selection process, to ensure a 
robust and transparent process a Governance Board was convened. The Board had senior 
representatives from across DIT and the overseas network. The Board moderated and 
reviewed applications and diversity data at each stage of the process. 47% of applicants to FLS 

 

6 

 

were female and of the twenty who successfully gained a place on the scheme just under 64% 
were female. For the 2016 FLS/SLS selection process, near-miss female applicants were 
provided with the opportunity to attend the Leadership Summit. The ‘Leadership Summit’ is an 
external development programme, run by the MK-LF Partnership, designed to ensure that 
women at middle management level are retained and able to achieve their full potential in and 
for their organisation.  
 

  Gender-mixed interview panels 

The department adheres to fair and open competition ensuring those involved in recruitment 
complete unconscious bias training and utilising gender mixed interview panels as a best 
practice approach. Where appropriate, cross-government representatives are sought to ensure 
a diversity of perspectives from panel members. Independent panel membership is provided by 
the HR Senior Leadership team. In addition, diversity monitoring forms are used as standard 
throughout the Senior Civil Servants selection process and external senior vacancies are 
posted on Mumsnet and Stonewall as standard. This supports DIT in actively seeking a diverse 
shortlist for senior posts. 

  Flexible working 

DIT supports all staff who wish to work more flexible, with options available for job sharing, 
reduced hours, compressed hours and term-time working, to help employees balance their work 
and personal commitments alongside the needs of the business. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

7 

 

Calculations 
 

Our calculations have followed the legislative requirements. We confirm that the data reported is 
accurate as of 31 March 2017.  

DIT’s workforce is based across the UK and also overseas, on the One HMG platform. DIT has 
faced challenges as a new department to accurately capture all required pay elements for the 
statutory gender pay gap reporting requirements. The 2017 Gender Pay Gap analysis includes only 
those staff deemed to be full paid relevant employees based in the UK, on DIT payroll. Contractors 
were not included, nor were overseas Civil Servants as obtaining data was impractical for this 
year’s analysis. However, these will be included in future years’ reporting and therefore it is likely 
DIT’s overall figures will change. 

Bonus data includes all in-year rewards made between July 2016 and 31 March 2017. Any in-year 
rewards paid before July 2016 were paid to staff in UK Trade and Investment, part of the former 
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, and have therefore not been included in DIT’s 
calculations. 

 

 

 

8 

 

gov.uk/dit 

 

 

 
DIT 
The UK’s Department for 
International Trade (DIT) has overall 
responsibility 
for promoting UK trade across the 
world and attracting foreign 
investment to our economy. We are a 
specialised government body with 
responsibility for negotiating 
international trade policy, supporting 
business, as well as delivering an 
outward-looking trade diplomacy 
strategy. 

Legal disclaimer 
Whereas every effort has been made 
to ensure that the information in this 
document is accurate the Department 
for International Trade does not 
accept liability for any errors, 
omissions or misleading statements, 
and no warranty is given or 
responsibility accepted as to the 
standing of any individual, firm, 
company or other organisation 
mentioned. 

 

 

Copyright 

© Crown Copyright 2017 

You may re-use this publication (not 
including logos) free of charge in any 
format or medium, under the terms of the 
Open Government Licence.  

To view this licence visit: 
www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-
government-licence or email: 
psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk. 

Where we have identified any third party 
copyright information in the material that 
you wish to use, you will need to obtain 
permission from the copyright holder(s) 
concerned. 

Any enquiries regarding this publication 
should be sent to us at 
enquiries@trade.gov.uk 

 

