W R A F T O N     L A B O R A T O R I E S 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

APRIL 
2017

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

Introduction

Wrafton Laboratories Limited is part of Perrigo, 
a global pharmaceutical company that provides 
Quality  Affordable  Healthcare  Products™  to 
consumers  and  patients  around  the  world. 
At  our  Wrafton  site,  employing  just  over  500 
people,  we  manufacture  a  range  of  over  the 
counter  medicines  such  as  cough  and  cold, 
analgesics and allergy relief products, making 
about a billion tablets a year and another billion 
capsules  and  sachets.  Wrafton  Laboratories 
is  pleased  to  report  our  Gender  Pay  Gap 
information, as of 5th April 2017, in line with 
our legal duty under the Equalities Act (2010).

The  Office  of  National  Statistics  tells  us  that 
across the U.K, the average hourly earnings for 
women are on average 18.1% lower than that 
of men*. However, in the manufacturing sector 
this  gap  is  estimated  to  be  slightly  higher  at 
22%.  Wrafton  Laboratories  has  a  pay  gap  of 
18% which is in line with the national average, 
but  lower  than  the  manufacturing  sector.  In 
order  to  understand  why  the  gap  exists,  we 
conducted a thorough analysis.

WHAT WE ALREADY DO
• We have a Code of Conduct entitled “We Are
Responsible” - creating and sustaining a
positive  working  environment  for  men  and
women is at the heart of what we do.

• We provide equal opportunities in all of our
employment  practices  and  seek  to  ensure
that  every  employee  is  treated  fairly  with
Integrity  being  one  of  our  core  values,
alongside Respect and Responsibility.

• Our  talent  acquisition  team  uses  rigorous
selection processes to ensure we have a fair
approach and place the people who best fit
the job and business need into the required
roles, regardless of gender.

• We  have  flexible  working  and  enhanced

family friendly leave policies in place.

• When  we  assign  pay,  we  use  a  globally
recognised  objective  method  to  evaluate
job worth and refer to internal and external
benchmark information to ensure fairness.

*Office of National Statistics 2016

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

Key Definitions

THE GENDER PAY GAP IS NOT THE SAME AS EQUAL PAY 

Equal Pay Laws have been in place since 1970 in the UK, stating men and women should 
be paid the same for doing the same or a similar job. The Gender Pay Gap is the difference 

in earnings between men and women across the entire organisation.

The MEDIAN represents the middle point of 
the population

The  MEAN  represents  the  average  amount 
for that population

£££££ ££££

£££

££

££

£££££ ££££

£££

££

££

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

Why does the gap exist?

Perrigo  has  four  legal  entities  in  the  UK  and 
some  senior  managers  who  do  not  solely 
operate in Wrafton Laboratories as 
they  have  broader  responsibilities 
across  the  other  entities.  If  we 
exclude these individuals, the mean 
pay gap reduces to 8% - well below 
the national average. 
Aside  from  this  first  point,  our 
Gender  Pay  Gap  analysis  and  challenges  are 
broadly consistent with the wider manufacturing 

sector and within the UK. The remainder of the 
gap can be attributed to more men than women 
serving  in  senior  leadership  roles 
and more women than men serving 
in our non-management roles. We 
also have three times as many part-
time female staff as we do part-time 
male staff. Finally, it is noteworthy 
that  within 
engineering 
department,  we  have  no  female  engineering 
technicians.

our 

MEAN PAY GAP

MEDIAN PAY GAP

On average, men earn 18% more than women

On average, men earn 12.9% more than women

Excluding senior managers not solely 

operating in Wrafton Laboratories who have 
broader responsibilities for other entities, men 

earn 8% more than women

Excluding senior managers not solely operating 

in Wrafton Laboratories who have broader 

responsibilities for other entities, men earn 11% 

more than women

PROPORTIONS OF MALES & FEMALES IN EACH PAY QUARTILE

When we compare women as a proportion of the overall workforce, we can see that women are over-
represented in the lower pay quartile and under represented in the upper middle and upper quartile.

OVERALL WORKFORCE

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

38%

62%

56%

44%

37%

63%

28%

72%

30%

70%

FEMALE

MALE

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

The Bonus gap

All our male and female employees are eligible for bonus payments on an annual 
basis, subject to scheme rules. Our proportions of males and females receiving bonus payments 
can be attributed to the number of new hires and attrition, as well as the different bonus plan timings 
in the scheme year.

94%

96%

MEAN BONUS GAP*

MEDIAN BONUS GAP

On average, men earn 12.4% more than women

On average, men earn 14.4% more than women

Excluding senior managers not solely operating 

in Wrafton Laboratories who have broader 

responsibilities for other entities, men earn 9% 

less than women

Excluding senior managers not solely operating 

in Wrafton Laboratories who have broader 
responsibilities for other entities, men earn 

14% less than women

*In 2017, the managers bonus was paid in June
rather than March, resulting in a lower mean
bonus for men than in other years.

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

What are our plans?

We  are  committed  to  continuing  our  
focus  on  ethical  business  practices 
and  maintaining  a  positive  working 
environment.

We have identified three main areas that we will 
focus  on  and  against  which  we  will  measure 
progress in future reports. 

1. We will take proactive steps to attract more
women  to  join  our  Engineering    team,
working with WISE (Women in Science and
Engineering)  and  collaborating  with  local
educational  institutions  to  identify  female
candidates  for  engineering  apprenticeships.
This is a strong commitment and meaningful
investment considering the context of the UK
Engineering  industry  in  which  we  operate,
both in terms of time and resources.

2. We will continue leveraging our Global Talent
Management and development processes to
improve our gender balance amongst senior
leaders.

3. We will further promote our flexible working
policies and ensure there is greater awareness 
of the opportunity to take advantage of our
family  friendly  policies  and  shared  parental
leave.

We can confirm the Gender Pay Gap 
figures provided in this report are in 
accordance with the regulations and 
are accurate. 

Martin Comer 
Operations Director

Efrat Feder Bukshpan 
HR Director

Wrafton Laboratories Ltd.

