UK

GENDER PAY 
REPORT
2017

WHY DOES INDUSTRIAL LIGHT & MAGIC (ILM) 
HAVE TO REPORT GENDER PAY GAP?
The UK government has brought in mandatory gender pay gap reporting requirements for all legal entities with over 
250 employees, for the period of May 2016 to April 2017. Approximately 9,000 companies across the UK are 
reporting their gender pay gap in April 2018. 

WHAT IS A GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap is the difference between the hourly rate of pay of male employees and female employees, expressed 
as a percentage of the hourly pay rate of the male employees. The gender pay gap is reported on both a mean (average) 
and median (mid-point on a distribution) basis.

IS IT THE SAME AS EQUAL PAY?
No, equal pay compares the salaries of men and women doing the same or equivalent work. This is one of the primary 
measurements that ILM uses to ensure a fair and equitable workplace. A gender pay gap does not mean that women 
make less than their male counterparts doing the same job.

ILM takes a holistic approach to addressing and 
ensuring gender equality in our workforce. We 
are proud that we compensate and promote 
people based on their roles, skills, experience and 
performance. 
However it is clear we need more women to be 
involved in our sector. ILM is planning steps at a 
grassroots level to encourage young women to 
enter the field through continued development 
of university relations to increase visibility of 
careers in the Visual Effects industry as well as 
mentorships and training within our organization. 
This will no doubt take time but management is 
committed to an ongoing and systemic approach 
to address this. 

2

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017UKWhat are Mean and Median pay gaps?
The mean (average) is calculated by adding together all values  
and dividing by the number of values.

The median is the middle value in a list sorted from lowest to highest.

Mean Pay Gap
The mean is the overall average of the whole sample and can thus be subject to the influences 
of any extremely high or low salaries at the top or bottom of the sample. In other words, the 
mean is much more subject to skewing by a small number of outliers. 
For example, a 25% mean pay gap (which is the private sector national pay gap per the Office 
of National Statistics) means that the average pay of men is 25% more than women.

highest female earners

highest male earners

Median Pay Gap
The median is a statistic commonly used in analysing both internal pay tendency and external 
market norm, because it looks at the central tendency of the market or sample, showing the 
middle-most salary of a sample. Calculating the median involves taking all salaries in a sample, 
lining them up in order from lowest to highest, and picking the middle-most salary.
For example, a 19.4% median pay gap (which is the private sector national pay gap  
per the Office of National Statistics) reflects that the average pay of women by this 
measurement is 19.4% less than men. Because the median measurement is less impacted 
by the highest and lowest outliers, it is closest to the experience of the typical man and the 
typical woman in a workforce.

Lowest paid

the median

highest paid

£

average 
paid male

average 
paid female

£

lowest female earners

lowest male earners

3

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017UKGender Pay GapGENDER PAY GAP
The gender pay gap figures outlined below show 
the percentage difference between the average 
pay for men collectively and the average 
pay for women collectively across the entire 
organisation, irrespective of roles. The mean 
and median gap figures are based on hourly 
rates of pay for all UK employees.

BONUS PAY GAP
The bonus gap figures outlined below show the 
percentage difference between the average bonus 
pay for men collectively and the average bonus pay 
for women collectively across the entire organisation, 
irrespective of roles. The figures also reveal the 
percentage of male and female UK employees receiving 
bonus pay in the reporting time period.

439

total UK employees

21.4% female workforce

Pay Gap

25.5% 29.2%

Mean 

Median

% of employees 
Receiving a Bonus

42.9%
Men

28.7% 
women

Bonus Gap 

-38%*

25%

Mean

Median
*Please note that the -38% refers to a female 
executive in ILM UK who received a substantial 
bonus for 2017 (offsetting the number for men)

GENDER POPULATION WITHIN QUARTILES
This shows how many men and women are in each quartile of the payroll based on hourly rates.

Top Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

439

total uk employees

21.4% female workforce

92.6%
Men

7.4%
women

81.7%
Men

18.3%
women

77.9%
Men

22.1%
women

62.9%
Men

37.1%
women

4

GENDER PAY REPORT 2017UKUK

GENDER PAY 
REPORT
2017

