 

 

Report on Gender Pay Equality March 2018 

 

RBCH welcomes the introduction of gender pay gap reporting across public and 
private sector organisations. We fully support equality of opportunity and recognise 
the further work we need to do to achieve this. Females are represented in many 
senior positions (our Medical Director, Director of Nursing & Midwifery and Human 
Resources Director are female) but we acknowledge there are still significant gaps 
e.g. in senior clinical roles which drive the greatest variances in our results.  

Reporting on our overarching Trust position is helpful and meets our legal 
requirements, however, we want to go further in exploring any existing or potential 
inequalities for all protected groups. Specific actions will form part of the wider 
Trust’s Diversity and Inclusion plan. Progress against these actions will be 
monitored by the Trust’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee and reported 
to the Workforce Committee and Trust Board annually as part of the agreed 
Equality and Diversity Strategy reporting system. In addition, from now on, we will 
publish our previous year’s data on the Government website and our own website. 

The reported data is based upon an NHS-wide gender pay reporting dashboard, 
developed using the Electronic Staff Record system. Gender pay gap reporting is 
different from equal pay which looks at pay differences between men and women 
who do similar jobs or work of equal value. It is therefore possible to have genuine 
pay equality but still have a significant gender pay gap.  
 
 Factors impacting Gender Pay Gaps in the NHS Workforce: 

The current NHS medical workforce has a far greater proportion of men, although, 
more balanced numbers of Junior Doctors should even this up over time. There are 
also social and cultural reasons why, historically, fewer men have been attracted to 
the lower paid roles in health. The national NHS terms and conditions ‘Agenda for 
Change’ was introduced in 2004 and is designed to avoid pay inequalities. Agenda 
for Change covers more than 1 million people and harmonises their pay scales and 
career progression arrangements across traditionally separate pay groups.  Staff 
move up the pay bands irrespective of gender. Medical and Dental staff have 
different sets of Terms and Conditions, depending on their seniority. However, 
these too are set across a number of pay scales for basic pay, which have varying 
thresholds within them. 

Some senior Medical and Dental staff hold management positions such as Clinical 
Directors and are in receipt of responsibility payments in addition to their basic pay. 
In addition some senior Medical and Dental staff receive Clinical Excellence Awards 
which are consolidated into basic pay.   

Not all roles within the Trust attract enhancements and this has had some impact in 
distorting the mean hourly rate. In addition, flexible working opportunities are 

available for all staff to apply for, and some staff whose role would normally attract 
enhanced pay in addition to their basic pay may choose to work set shifts, which do 
not attract the enhancements that colleagues would receive and this again will have 
had an impact on the mean hourly rate. 

 

RBCH Gender Pay Gap Statistics 2017: 

As at 31 March 2017,  RBCH had 4,411 substantive staff (headcount), of which 1,060 were 
male (24%) and 3,342 female (76%).   

This gender split is broadly consistent with most NHS Acute Trusts in England and Wales.  

The table below shows RBCH figures against the national measures as at 31/03/2017. 

Mean  Median 

  

Quartile 

Bonus Pay 
received by 

%; 

Femal

Bonus Pay 
Women’s 

Rate lower % 
Media

  

Women’s rate 

lower% 

Rang
e 

Male  Female  Male 

e 

Mean 

n 

Royal 

Bournemouth 
Hospitals NHS 

Foundation 

Trust 

23.17

% 

4.18% 

 
31.98
% 
 
 
16.48
% 
 
 
21.70
% 
 
 
23.77
% 
 

Top 
 

Upper 
 

Lower 
Mid 

Lower   
 

 
68.02% 
 

 
83.52% 

 
78.30% 

 
76.23% 

6.00
% 

0.61% 

40.82

58.39

% 

% 

 
Please see Appendix A for a visual representation of these results. 
 
Please see https://www.gov.uk/government/news/gender-pay-gap-reporting for detail 
on how these results are calculated. 
 
Action Planning: 

In order to act to address the Gender Pay Gap, initial plans will include:  

  Further analysis of the detail to understand exactly what the statistics are telling us. 
Identification of specific actions we can take to influence and enable more women to 
 
move to the highest paid roles.  These may include targeted management of the 
talent pipeline, targeted links with universities and educational establishments, more 
emphasis on family friendly policies and flexible working.  
Identification of any hidden barriers preventing women taking the next step up in 
their roles and career paths and acting to address these.  At RBCH we are pleased 
to see a positive skew in females in the upper quadrant (84%) suggesting that 
women are progressing, however this does not translate to the Top quadrant (68%), 

 

so we need to understand why.  This could resolve itself over time or there may be 
obstacles to be addressed.   

  At the stage RBCH is at in our Cultural Change programme, we are placing an even 

greater emphasis on ensuring that our values and behaviours translate into an 
environment where all protected groups can thrive and achieve their career 
aspirations. 

  Review of governance and assurance for the Workforce/Remuneration Committees 

and Board regarding: 

o  Ensuring that starting salary exceptions can be objectively justified.  
o  Ensuring equity of access to premium payments. 
o  Ensuring clear accountability for continuous measurement, analysis and 

reporting of data, actions and outcomes. 

 

 

Appendix A:  Gender Pay Gap Key Findings Graphic: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reference: Human Resources/Diversity & Inclusion,  March 2018 

