Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Message from the Managing Director

At Lion Re:Sources UK we are committed to delivering a workplace where fairness, inclusion and
equal opportunity are embedded as part of our core values. These values are reflected in the
approach we take to recruitment, pay awards and staff development.

As a result, I am pleased to report that the gender pay gap at Lion Re:Sources UK is significantly
below the UK average (10.2% vs national average of 18.4%). There is still more work to do,
particularly in terms of recruiting more female staff into technical roles, and we have outlined
below our plans to close the gap even further over the coming years.

Keith Widdowson - Managing Director UK & Ireland

The Gender Pay Gap is the difference in average pay between men and women in an organization. Lion Re:Sources 

UK Limited (“Re:Sources”) mean gender pay gap for 2017 is 10.2%, and the median is 1.7%.

The pay gap is different from Equal Pay which is defined as “the right for men and women to be paid the same when 

doing the same, or equivalent, work” (Equality Act, 2010). 

The results below were based on the
Government guideline calculations to
determine Re:Sources’ gender pay gap
for 2017.

Mean 

(Average)

Median 
(Middle)

10.2%

1.7%

Gender 
Pay Gap

Band A (Lower)

Band B (Lower Middle)

52%

52%

48%

48%

Band C (Upper Middle)

Band D (Upper)

Female

Male

35%

37%

65%

63%

1

2016 Bonus Split

Mean (Average) Median (Middle)

Gender Bonus
Gap

1.2%

5.2%

2016 bonus split

Percentage of 

Percentage of 

Males receiving a 

Females receiving

bonus

48.7%

a bonus

57.5%

What does our gender pay gap data tell us?

We are confident that the gender pay gap is not an equal pay issue. The higher salary average of 10.2% in favour of men
can be explained by Re:Sources’ lack of female representation in certain technical, IT and head of department roles,
which attract higher rates of pay. Although Re:Sources has a fairly good distribution of male and female middle
managers, the Re:Sources UK IT department make up 25% of the overall workforce and this department is
predominantly male. Also proportionally there are a greater number of males holding head of department posts in Tax,
Treasury, Payroll, Property and IT, for example. This is a reflection on the current UK market where typically these
positions are male dominated.

There is a fairly equal distribution of men and women in the lower pay quartiles, i.e. the proportion of men in Band A,
51.52% and in Band B, 48.48%. However, the proportion of men with a higher hourly rate of pay increases within Bands
C and D to 65.15% and 63.08%.

What is Re:Sources doing to address its gender pay gap?

While Re:Sources’ gender pay gap is below the national average, this is not a subject about which we are complacent
and we remain committed to trying to reduce our gender pay gap. There are some contributing factors to Re:Sources’
gender pay gap (e.g. low numbers of female applicants in male dominated sectors such as IT) which are difficult for
Re:Sources to change in the short term. However, Re:Sources is committed to considering longer term efforts to help
address such issues.

Re:Sources will continue to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce and will seek to reduce its gender pay
gap further by taking the following steps:







Actively seeking to attract women to heads of department, technical and IT-related roles.

Encouraging more flexi-time and remote work options, and including this to job postings and recruiting information
where possible.

“Unconscious Bias Training” for line managers more specific to the hiring and career progression of women.

2

Publicis Groupe Statement

“Equality and equal opportunities are not just ambitions for the future of Publicis Groupe. It is
something we work to make a reality, every day, for the good of our people and our clients.

Globally, our supervisory board is made up of equal numbers of women and men. In the UK,
our agencies are focusing on progressing initiatives that will help achieve a better balance of
gender at senior levels. We already have strong female leadership in Sue Frogley (UK CEO,

Publicis Media), Kate Stanners (Chairwoman and Global CCO, Saatchi & Saatchi), Carol Miller-Repetto (CEO, PG
One), Chaka Sobhani (CCO, Leo Burnett London), Karen Buchanan (Chairman, Publicis London / Chief Client
Development Officer, Publicis UK), Jodie Stranger (Starcom UK Group CEO / President of Global Network Clients,
EMEA) and Annette King, who will be joining us soon as CEO Publicis Groupe UK.

It is a start, but we are very aware that we still have a long way to go – as with many industries, the ratio of
women to men decreases with seniority. We strongly believe in equality within the workplace and that our
agencies and our industry would be more successful with men and women at all levels. That’s why our Diversity &
Inclusion initiatives, led by Anne-Gabrielle Heilbronner, member of the Directoire and Groupe Secretary General,
are an everyday priority for Publicis Groupe and our agencies. These initiatives, including VivaWomen! and the
LGBT movement Égalité, encourage and celebrate diversity and inclusion in all of their forms”

Steve King - Executive Sponsor, Publicis Groupe UK | Global CEO, Publicis Media.

3

