Gender Pay Gap Statement

Volac is committed to building an environment that is inclusive of all people and their 
unique abilities, strengths and differences.  As we continue to grow, embracing diversity 
 in every aspect of our business- from the way we work together to the way we procure 
goods and services - is vital to our long-term success. We respect diversity in each other, 
our customers and suppliers and all others with whom we interact. 

Whilst a high proportion of people working in the dairy industry are male, reducing our gender gap for pay and bonuses is part  
of our commitment and we are working towards increasing the number of females in senior positions, balancing this goal by 
ensuring that appointments and promotions remain merit-based.  

•   Volac employs over 300 people in the UK, with more than 

half employed in production roles within our 4 factories. 

•   Our mean gender pay gap is 29%, which reflects that the 
current situation that most of our senior roles are filled by 
men, including the three brothers that own the company

•   Our median gender pay gap is 2.4%, men hold both the 
highest and the lowest paid roles at Volac. The distribution 
of men and women can be seen in the pay quartiles in the 
table below.

 
•   Our mean gender bonus gap is 67.3% reflects the 

numbers of men who are incumbent in our most senior  
roles which have higher market rates of bonus

•   Our median gender bonus gap is 18.9%

•   72.3% of females and 76.5% of males receive bonus.  

All our employees are eligible to receive bonus after 3 
months. The reason for the small difference is the timing  
of starters and leavers

Pay Quartiles

Women

Men

Lowest

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Highest

38%

34%

34%

28%

62%

66%

66%

72%

Gender Pay Gap Statement

Proportion of colleagues awarded a bonus for 2017

72.3%

76.5%

72.3%

76.5%

Received a bonus

Did not receive a bonus (%)

We have already taken a number actions aimed at improving opportunities for women at Volac.

We have:
•  Introduced enhanced maternity pay
•  Accommodated flexible working requests, such as job sharing non-standard and reduced hours wherever possible
•  Challenged recruiters to present a balanced group of male and female candidates
•  Increased the number of women in our succession pipelines over the last two years
•  Included gender diversity metrics in our succession planning dashboard
•  Made more efforts to ensure learning and development opportunities are available to everyone
•   Encouraged our senior women to attend coaching and leadership development seminars with an organisation that is  

specifically focussed on women leaders. 

•  Closely monitored pay rates in the market place to make sure that pay for every role in Volac is fair and competitive
•  In recent months we have advanced several women in our business – either to increased responsibilities or promotion. 

We constantly aim to ensure all staff have equal opportunities when it comes to recruitment and continuous professional  
development because we value great people and what they can bring to our business. We are committed to making a  
meaningful reduction in our pay and bonus gaps in the coming years.

