ITV 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 
Introduction
New legislation came into effect in April 2017, requiring all UK companies with 250 or more employees to publish 
their gender pay gap. A gender pay gap isn’t the difference in pay between men and women doing the same or similar 
work – that’s ‘equal pay’ and UK law prohibits less favourable treatment due to gender.
Instead, a gender pay gap shows the difference between the average pay of all women and the average pay of all 
men, irrespective of any differences in the work they do. As a result, it’s affected by how the workforce is made up, 
including the numbers of men and women in different types of jobs and at different levels of seniority.
This report contains ITV’s 2017 gender pay gap information, as required under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017.

Reporting requirements
Companies are required to report the following 
gender pay gap information:
•  Gender pay gap – the difference between the 

median, and also the mean, hourly rate of pay for men 
and for women, based on the April 2017 pay period.
•  Gender bonus gap – the difference between the 
median, and also the mean, value of bonus pay for 
men and for women over the 12 months to April 2017. 

•  Bonus proportions – the proportions of men and 

women who received bonus pay during the 12 months 
to April 2017.

•  Quartile pay bands – if the total workforce was 
put in order of hourly rate of pay and then split 
into four groups of equal size, or quartiles, this is 
the proportions of men and women in each of 
the four groups.

Median and mean
The legislation requires average pay to be calculated 
in two different ways, using the median and also 
the mean:

Median – If all women were lined up in order of 
their pay, and so were all men, the median pay 
for men and the median pay for women would be 
the pay of the individual in the middle of each line. 
The median gender pay gap compares these two 
values. The median indicates the ‘typical’ situation 
in the middle and is less affected by any outliers 
at the top or bottom.

Mean – To calculate the mean level of pay for women 
and for men, the pay of all women is added together 
and then divided by the number of women, and the 
pay of all men is added together and then divided 
by the number of men. The mean gender pay gap 
compares these two values. The mean is more 
affected by any particularly high or low values 
within a group.

Example

A workforce is made up of:
•  10 analysts (seven women and three men), 

who are all paid £30,000 a year.

•  Six senior managers (two women and four men), 

who are all paid £75,000 a year.

Everyone who does the same job is paid equally, but:
•  If you add together the pay for all nine women and 
divide by the number of women, the mean pay for 
all women is £40,000. If you add together the pay 
for all seven men and divide by the number of men, 
the mean pay for all men is £55,714. Comparing 
these two values results in a mean gender pay gap 
of 28.2%, which means the mean pay for women 
is 28.2% less than for men.

•  If you were to line up all nine women in order of pay, 
the woman in the middle of the line would be paid 
£30,000. If you were to do the same for all seven 
men, the man in the middle of the line would be 
paid £75,000. Comparing these two values results in 
a median gender pay gap of 60%, which means the 
median pay for women is 60% less than for men.
The gender pay gap in this example is due to the 
different numbers of men and women doing each 
type of job.

1

ITV plcITV 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 
Our gender pay gap
According to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) the 
overall UK median gender pay gap is 18.4%. These are the 
gender pay gap figures for ITV overall1, which have been 
calculated in line with the reporting regulations.

Gender pay gap

Gender bonus gap

Median
Mean
11.90% 16.40%

0.00% 49.42%

Bonus proportions
Male employees receiving  
bonus pay

94.0%

Female employees receiving  
bonus pay 

93.0%

Quartile  
pay bands

Upper
 Women  42.0%
58.0%
 Men 

Upper middle
 Women  47.6%
52.4%
 Men 

Lower middle
 Women  54.9%
45.1%
 Men 

Lower
 Women  60.3%
39.7%
 Men 

Median gender 
pay gap by  
quartile pay band

1.01% 0.30% 1.42% 1.69%

1   Overall ITV figures are based on all permanent and fixed-term ITV employees based in England, Scotland and Wales, who are subject to standard ITV 

contractual terms and conditions. In line with the regulations, we’ve excluded those people who aren’t employed on a permanent or fixed-term contract 
of employment and for whom it’s not reasonably practicable to obtain the data required for the calculations.

The gender balance of our workforce is strong, with 
slightly more women than men working at ITV overall 
(53% women versus 48% men), and our median gender 
pay gap of 11.9% is lower than the overall UK median 
pay gap of 18.4%. 

Our gender pay gap exists because of the make-up of our 
workforce, with more men than women working in the 
most senior or highly paid roles at ITV, and more women 
than men in lower paying roles.

We’re committed to supporting flexibility and helping 
all of our employees balance their career with life outside 
of work. At ITV, many more women than men choose to 
work less than full-time hours, and take extended family 
leave, which also has an impact on our numbers, 
particularly our mean bonus gap.

We recognise that in order for our programmes and 
content to accurately reflect and appeal to modern 
society, it’s important that the teams behind the scenes 
are equally diverse and that we foster a workplace 
culture that’s inclusive and accessible to all. You can find 
out more about how we promote an inclusive workforce 
and culture at itvresponsibility.com.

Through our ongoing programme of diversity and 
inclusion initiatives, we are committed to ensuring that 
there are no barriers within ITV that prevent women 
being able to progress and fully achieve their personal 
career goals. As a result of producing our gender pay gap 
figures, we’re setting up a new gender pay gap working 
group, sponsored by Ian Griffiths, COO & CFO, to 
specifically focus on continued delivery of the right 
actions for us.

2

ITV plc