 

 

Our Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Faltec Europe Ltd (FEL) is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report, using data 
as at the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.  We are committed to the principle of equal opportunities 
and  equal  treatment  for  all  employees  and  as  such,  we  evaluate  job  roles  and  pay  grades  as 
necessary  to  ensure  a  fair  structure.    As  at  the  snapshot  date,  the  workforce  comprised  376 
employees: 347 male and 29 female.   

The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap, based on hourly rates of 
pay as at the 5th April 2017.  It also captures the mean and median differences between bonus 
payments throughout the 12 months leading up to 5th April 2017.   

 

 

Pay & Bonus Gap 

Difference between Men and Women 

Mean 

Median 

Women’s Hourly pay 

5.6% (lower) 

-9.6% (higher) 

Women’s Bonus pay 

0% 

0% 

We are confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently 
for the same or equivalent work.  Rather our gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which 
men and women are working within our Company, and the salaries that these roles attract. 

We can see from the table above that the proportion of female employees awarded a bonus was 
0%, in addition, the proportion of male employees awarded a bonus was 8.6%. 

Pay quartiles by gender 

LOWEST

QUARTILE 2

QUARTILE 3

HIGHEST

Males

Females

Males

Females

Males

Females

Males

Females

12
%

88
%

3%

97
%

10
%

90
%

6%

94
%

  

  

  

 

The above image illustrates the gender distribution at FEL, across four equally sized quartiles; 
each quartile contains 94 employees.   

All of the figures set out in this report have been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

 

What is FEL doing to address its gender pay gap? 

Whilst our gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations within the UK 
economy and within the automotive manufacturing sector generally, this is not a subject about 
which we are complacent.  It may be several years until the gender pay gap is removed, but we 
are committed to doing everything that we can to reduce the gap.  We also recognise that our 
scope to act is limited in some areas, for example, we have no direct control over the skills that 
individuals have or the career choices that they make. 

I confirm that the information in this report is accurate. 

 

 

Keith Wakley 

Deputy Managing Director 

 

