Farfetch:

Gender Pay Gap Reporting

FARFETCH UK, 2016/2017

Jose Neves, 
Founder & CEO 

Farfetch is a global company that celebrates having a diverse workforce made up of amazing 
employees, whose talents span a huge range of fashion and technology expertise. With over 
50 nationalities represented across our offices around the world, we continue to scale with 
diversity top of mind. As a company that brings together the worlds of fashion and technology, 
we are proud of the culture we’ve built and we continue to have ambitious plans for all of our 
employees internationally.  

While this report outlines our Gender Pay Gap in the UK only, we are committed to equality and 
diversity on a global scale. We are early in our journey with our gender pay gap and we know 
we have work to do to ensure our global philosophy and plans are robust. Our work will include 
strengthening our compensation policies that target equal pay, continuing to implement ca-
reer development plans in order to retain talented female employees, a focus on family-friendly 
practices and continuing on our path of  ‘conscious inclusion’. These efforts have already had 
benefits which we’ve outlined in this report, but we know there is more to do on this journey. We 
are fully committed to it and we are excited about what we can achieve. 

In this report, we aim to outline the UK gender pay gaps, and provide context around the num-
bers as well as present the plans we have in place to continue to close the gap.

Our Female Demographic 

F

M

51% of our global workforce are women 
who represent 44 different nationalities

F

M

51% of our Senior Leadership roles

globally are occupied by women

F

M

33% of our product and technology roles

 globally are occupied by women

F

M

74% of our UK workforce are women

who represent 39 nationalities

Definitions and 
Understanding our 
Numbers 

In the UK, companies of more than 250 employees as of April 4th 
2017 are required to publish specific data relating to Gender Pay & 
Bonus gaps. This data is taken from a snapshot of our pay and bonus 
position over the 12 month payroll period prior to April 5th 2017.  

Our gender pay gap shows the difference between the average earn-
ings of men and women regardless of the level of seniority. This is dif-
ferent from equal pay which looks at if women are being paid equally 
for like work. 

The work we do internally to monitor and address gender pay differs 
from what is required for us to publish in the UK. Our work will continue 
to take a broader look at equal pay trends across our global offices.

Our UK Reporting 
Requirements 

We are required to report on the mean & median gender pay and bonus 
gap; the number of females and males who receive a bonus and  a view 
of our quartiles showing the male and female representation in the four 
segments. 

The median gives us a typical view of the sample being the point in 
the middle. This shows more about the general populous and having 
a smaller gap here indicates that the two samples intersect at similar 
salary points.

The mean is a good indicator of the outliers, in our case this was influ-
enced by the distribution of men and women across the UK business. 
Both are important as they provide us with different insights. 

FIGURE 1: PAY GAP

FIGURE 3: QUARTILE DISTRIBUTION 2018

Median hourly pay gap

Mean pay gap

F

M

F

M

For 2017, our median gender 
gap was 40.68%

For 2017, our mean gender 
gap was 35.01%

Our overall mean and median gender pay gap (as seen here in figure 1.) is influenced 
by the distribution of men and women at Farfetch in the UK.

Top
quartile

Upper middle 
quartile

Lower middle 
quartile

Lower
quartile

M

F

60.27%

69.86%

80.82%

90.54%

We reported our data by breaking our population into quartiles. The charts in figure 3 
show our gender representation in our UK business. 

FIGURE 2: BONUS PAY GAP

FIGURE 4

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

In 2017, 92.66% 

of females 

received a bonus

In 2017, 96.08% 
of males received 

a bonus

F

M

F

M

For 2017, our mean bonus 
gap was 59.72%

For 2017, median bonus gap 
was 23.17%

Figure 2 shows you the overall bonus mean and median gap as of this point. Again 
this is influenced by the distribution of men and women in the UK. Our Bonus Median 
data is influenced by a higher % workforce of females in the lower quartiles in our 
business, meaning the middle point sits lower. 

Figure 4: All employees at Farfetch are eligible for a bonus. We do have two specific 
dates throughout the year which means new joiners of a certain time period may miss 
eligibility of the next bonus pay-out. In this data reporting period, more women joined 
during this time-frame. The same eligibility rule applies for all new Farfetchers who 
join us. 

Our Areas of Focus 

COMPENSATION PRINCIPLES & EQUAL PAY 

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESSION

This is a step on our journey and our UK data only represents one area 
of our gender pay gap. We want to truly understand the drivers and 
outliers around our pay. As part of our bi-annual global compensation 
review, we look at equal and gender pay gaps and we will start to align 
global compensation principles to equal pay trends and needs. This will 
be a continued effort.

We have a good representation of women in our workforce, and 
we are committed to their career development and progression at 
Farfetch. We are increasing our efforts to ensure career progression 
opportunities are clear and mapped for women in our organisation and 
we will have internal mobility plans in place which support development 
and progression to roles and opportunities within the business. 

HIRING AT SCALE AS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
EMPLOYER

We spend considerable time and care in how we recruit the best talent 
in line with our company values. 

Our hiring approach will be one of equal opportunity and we’ll use data 
to measure our needs and successes and focus our diversity efforts. 

We have a focus on conscious inclusion and are developing a change 
programme that supports our work to create this culture. 

OUR FOCUS ON FAMILY 

We will continue to build on our family focused culture and practices.  

We have improved our return to work rates of maternity leavers and 
progression of women during this period of their lives. 

 Our UK ‘family focus’ policy takes a gender neutral approach to 
offering transitional coaching for all new parents. Additionally, we 
introduced flexi-working in the UK in 2015 and believe our workforce 
has embraced this as a genuine way of working. We spend considerable 
time with maternity leavers to coach them as they return to work.

Thank you

