 
 

The Wales Millennium Centre 

Gender Pay Gap Report - 2018 

 

Who is the Wales Millennium Centre? 

Wales Millennium Centre is a national arts Centre and is situated at the heart of Cardiff Bay. We have welcomed over 16.5million people through our doors 
since opening in 2004, and we continue to be one of Wales’ most popular visitor attractions.  In addition, the Centre is home to eight other residents with 
whom we collaborate and support and our mission is to create a focal point for the culture, identity and talents of Wales.   

 

Vision and Objectives 

The Centre’s vision is to Inspire Our Nation, Impress the World by creating inspirational and life changing experiences that broaden horizons. 

 In the coming years, the Centre will seek to: 

  Raise the aspiration of every young person in Wales 
  Be accessible to everyone 
  Be celebrated as one of the leading performing arts centres in the world 
  Create innovative work that showcases Wales to the world 

 

Equality & Diversity at the Wales Millennium Centre 

Central to our vision and objectives is our commitment to Equality and Diversity. The Centre believes in being an inclusive and diverse organisation where 
all our staff and customers feel welcome and one where our working environment and the services we provide truly reflect the diversity of the people and 
communities with whom we engage. To deliver success we realise we must be proactive in removing the barriers which some people may face when 
accessing our services, including when seeking employment. We therefore continually ensure that our practices are not only compliant, but are proactive 
and work in accordance with the Equality Act 2010. 

 

 
Our Gender Pay Gap 

The bar chart below illustrates our overall mean and median gender pay gaps based on data at 5th April 2017. 

16%

20%

15%

10%

5%

0%

MEAN GENDER PAY

GAP

Glossary of Terms: 

3%

MEDIAN GENDER

PAY GAP

 

Mean Pay: Average pay for all employees (based on hourly rate) 
Median Pay: The mid-point when pay is set out from the highest point to the lowest point, providing a view of the typical pay of the middle earner (based on hourly rate) 
 
 
Our Gender Pay Quartiles 

The table below illustrates the gender distribution across the Centre in four equally sized quartiles according to pay bands. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOWER QUARTILELOWER MIDDLE QUARTILEUPPER MIDDLE QUARTILEUPPER QUARTILETotal in Quartile = 63Total in Quartile = 62Total in Quartile = 63Total in Quartile = 62% of Males Lower Quartile = 40%% of Males Lower Middle Quartile = 27%% of Males in Upper Middle Quartile = 44%% of Males in Upper  Quartile = 58%% of Females Lower Quartile = 60%% of Females Lower Middle Quartile = 73%% of Females in Upper Middle Quartile = 56%% of Females in Upper  Quartile = 42% 
Bonus Payments 

As part of the statutory reporting obligations, employers are required to publish the gender pay gap found within their bonus payments. 

Please note, that no bonuses were paid at the Wales Millennium Centre during 2017 and therefore we will not be able to report on this requirement. 

Our Gender Pay Gap Explained… 

We value the diversity of our employees and are committed to creating a working environment that is inclusive to all and we are confident that men and 
women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across the Centre.  

Our analysis of our Gender Pay Gap of 16% (based on snapshot information dated 5th April 2017) is largely driven by the following: 

  There are 29% more women employed at the Centre than there are men 
  There are more women in junior roles 
  There are slightly more men in senior roles 

These findings demonstrate that we must focus our attention and understand more explicitly why more females occupy junior roles within the organisation, 
in addition to understanding how we may increase the number of women in more senior roles. 

 

Our Commitment  

We will continue to regularly review and ensure our policies and practices are fair, and this includes actively reviewing decisions around pay.  

Our commitment over the next twelve months is to also: 

  Carry out further analysis for reporting 

This is the first year that we have reported our gender pay gap. Before our next report we will actively look to investigate the gender pay gap and consider what 
measures may be taken to reduce this where possible. 
 

  Continue to review and implement initiatives that support Equality, Diversity & Inclusion 

In conjunction with our Diversity Champions we will continue to implement our revised People Strategy and Equality and Diversity Plans for 2018 to further 
increase EDI at the Centre. 
 

  Actively encourage flexible working 

Our employee survey for 2017 highlighted that our staff valued the level of flexibility provided to them. We will therefore continue to actively encourage flexible 
and agile ways of working to ensure the work life balance needs of our employees are met. 

 

 

  Review recruitment processes 

We want our practices to be accessible to all when seeking employment at the Centre. We will therefore review our recruitment practices and processes to 
eliminate any potential barriers. 
 

 

Mathew Milsom 

Managing Director  

 

 

 

 

 

