Butterworths Limited 
2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 

Under UK legislation (the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017), companies with 
250 or more employees in Great Britain are required to publish specified UK gender pay gap statistics. 
Butterworths Limited is the UK employing entity for LexisNexis Legal and Professional, which is a leading global 
provider of legal, regulatory and business information and analytics.   

Butterworths Limited employs around 1,200 people in Great Britain, representing approximately 11% of 
LexisNexis Legal and Professional’s global employee population. This Report for Butterworths Limited is 
published in accordance with the UK legislation. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING REQUIREMENT 

The UK gender pay gap is different from equal pay. The UK gender pay gap measures the overall difference 
between the average pay received by men and the average pay received by women in a workplace. It therefore 
reflects the different number of men and women at varying levels of seniority, and doing different roles. The UK 
gender pay gap does not measure or compare pay in like-for-like roles. By contrast, equal pay is a legal 
requirement in the UK to pay men and women the same for equal or similar work. Butterworths Limited is 
committed to equal pay and has policies in place to pay employees fairly for the role they do, irrespective of their 
gender. A UK gender pay gap can exist despite men and women being paid equally for the same or similar roles. 

The reason for the total pay gap at Butterworths Limited is that there are more men than women in senior roles, 
which are higher paid roles, and more women than men in lower paid roles, as illustrated by the Pay Quartile 
statistics below. Many factors contribute to this. For example, there are more men than women in the technology 
function at Butterworths Limited.  

The bonus pay gap statistics reflect the fact that opportunities to receive performance-related pay (for example 
annual and share based incentives and sales commission) increase with seniority and the more senior the 
population, the higher the proportion of men to women. Furthermore, the bonus pay gaps (particularly the 
median) are significantly increased by our All Staff Bonus, which pays out relatively modest amounts to 
employees in lower paid roles, many of whom are women. 

 
THE ACTIONS WE ARE TAKING GLOBALLY 

LexisNexis Legal and Professional is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work place.  To learn more 
about our vision and initiatives, including our efforts to increase representation of women in senior roles, please 
click here. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP INFORMATION FOR BUTTERWORTHS LIMITED 
 

Pay Quartile  % of 
men  
58.7%  41.3% 

% of 
women  

Upper  

Median total pay 
gap per quartile 
6.5% 

  Mean total pay gap 

  Median total pay gap 

Upper Middle   59.3%  40.7% 
Lower Middle   40.2%  59.8% 
Lower  
43.2%  56.8% 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

-0.1% 
0.4% 
1.9% 
 
 

 

 

 
  % of men receiving bonus pay 
  % of women receiving bonus pay 
 
  Mean bonus pay gap 

 

  Median bonus pay gap 

17.2% 

18.6% 

 
87.0% 
83.8% 
 
69.4% 

90.5% 

I confirm that the information and data provided in this Report are accurate and in line with the UK legislation.  
Alyce Clark, EVP Human Resources 
 
Notes 
1 The pay quartiles show the gender distribution across Butterworths Limited. Each pay quartile contains a quarter of the total Butterworths Limited 
employees, who were ranked from highest pay (upper quartile) to lowest pay (lower quartile). 
2 The total pay gap is based on employees’ hourly rate of pay, calculated using their ordinary pay and any bonus pay received in April 2017. Ordinary pay 
includes regular pay (eg base salary and allowances). Bonus pay includes all types of incentive pay (eg annual bonus, commission, share based award pay outs 
and option exercises).  
3 The proportions of men/women receiving bonus pay and the bonus pay gap are based on bonus pay received in the 12 months to 5 April 2017. 
4 The mean is found by adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values. 
5 The median is found by listing the values in order and finding the middle number in the list (or, if there are equal numbers, the mean of the 2 middle 
numbers). 

