2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

Contents
1  Introduction 
3
2  About Penguin Random House  4
3   Our gender pay gap data 
5
4  Where we are now 
5  Where we want to be 
6   Our commitment to inclusion 
7   Working at Penguin  
Random House UK 
8  Statutory disclosure 

14

13

8

8

11

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 2

Introduction

At Penguin Random House UK we are committed 
to being an inclusive employer. Alongside 
gender diversity, this means taking into account 
ethnicity, sexuality, social mobility and disability. 
We strongly believe that employing people 
from different backgrounds, with a rich array 
of experiences and a diversity of perspectives, 
make us better publishers for our authors and 
our readers.

We already have a number of different initiatives 
in place to support our colleagues in building a 
successful and rewarding career that also allows 
them to spend time with their families and 
pursue their personal interests, goals and dreams 
outside the office. This includes programmes and 
benefits specifically designed to support women 
working at Penguin Random House UK, given 
the strong female representation across all levels 
of our business. Half our senior leadership team 
are women, with female Managing Directors 
running six of our nine publishing houses, and 

we also have women heading up our Technology, 
Distribution, Legal, HR and Communications 
departments. 

However, we recognise there is more to do. Our 
ultimate aim is for Penguin Random House UK  
to be a truly gender-balanced organisation at  
all levels: for gender to be neither a barrier nor 
an advantage for any colleagues, whatever their 
role or seniority, as they strive for progression 
and achievements in their career. We think there 
are some key areas we can focus on to make  
this ambition a reality, which we outline later in 
this report.

I confirm that Penguin Random House UK’s 
gender pay gap calculations are accurate.

Val Garside, Director of Human Resources 

 

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 3

About Penguin  
Random House UK

We are a vibrant community of 
publishing houses, representing 
distinguished publishing histories 
marked by unparalleled success. We sell 
and license books in over 120 countries, 
connecting great books with a growing 
and global audience. From the best 
new fiction or picture book writers, to 
political commentators, trailblazing 
entrepreneurs, health experts and bold 
illustrators, we enable talented people 
from all walks of life to tell their stories – 
and we make sure they are heard. 

We are proud of our strong heritage of 
bringing some of the greatest female 
voices from around the world to the fore 
through our books; from Harper Lee, 
Jacqueline Wilson, Malorie Blackman 
and Zadie Smith to Arundhati Roy, Ali 
Smith, Beatrix Potter and Paula Hawkins. 
It’s in our DNA; when Allen Lane 
published the first Penguin books in 
1935, realising his vision to make quality 
books available to all at low prices, five 
of the ten titles on his list were women: 
Agatha Christie, Susan Ertz, Beverley 
Nichols, Dorothy L. Sayers and Mary 
Webb. We want to continue this legacy 
and ensure that the authors we publish 
and the cultures and backgrounds they 
represent reflect the society we live in.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 4

Our gender pay gap data

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap shows the difference 
between the average hourly pay between all 
men and women in a workforce. It’s important 
to note that the gender pay gap is different 
from equal pay. Equal pay deals with pay 
differences between men and women who 
carry out the same work or work of equal 
value. Penguin Random House UK ensures men 
and women doing the same job at the same 
level are paid on fair and consistent terms. 
Companies can still have a gender pay gap 
without having any unequal pay issues.

The gender pay gap is based on an hourly pay 
rate for each relevant employee, reflecting base 
salary and certain allowances, and total variable 
pay over the previous 12 months, representing 
cash bonus paid plus any proceeds on exercise 
of ECP, EIP or LTIP awards. 

Disclosures on pay included in this report are 
based on amounts paid via payroll in April 
2017 (i.e. for the period 1 April 2017 to 30 
April 2017), whilst bonus data refers to the pay 
period from 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017

Hourly pay  
the median and mean % difference 
between the average hourly earnings 
for men and women.

Proportion of 
colleagues receiving  
a bonus payment

Proportion of males 
and females in each 
pay quartile

-1.6%

Median gender 

pay gap

The median relates to the middle value of 
an ordered set of values; i.e. representing 
the ‘typical’ difference as it is unaffected by 
particularly high or low values at either end.

11.3%

Mean gender 

pay gap

The mean takes into account the full earnings 
distribution, calculating the overall average. 

79.8%

77.6%

Bonus pay 
the median and mean difference 
between the average bonus 
earnings for men and women

-24.4% 33.0%

Median bonus 

pay gap

Mean bonus 

pay gap

49.7%

Top Quartile

50.3%

33.7%

Upper Middle 

Quartile

66.3%

32.5%

Lower Middle 

Quartile

67.5%

53.2%

Lower Quartile

46.8%

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 5

Understanding the numbers

Hourly pay
Our analysis shows that the difference between 
the average hourly earnings for men and women 
is –1.6% using the median measure and 11.3% 
using the mean measure. 

The gap in our mean hourly pay exists because  
of the following reasons:
The shape of our organisation.  
We have strong female representation in our 
leadership team (44% in the reporting period 
and 50% today). 58% of our employees at the 
time of reporting were female, however the 
quartile analysis shows that we see an increased 
proportion of men in more senior and higher paid 
roles in comparison to our overall gender split.
The job mix in our company.  
 We employ more than 2,000 people in many 
different roles; all with variable pay ranges 
informed by their market value. Pay ranges differ 
by function as well as job level and there are 
variations in the proportion of men and women 
in different functional areas. For example, in 

Technology where salaries are relatively  
high compared to other roles specific to the  
publishing sector, it is 73% male. In our  
Publishing Houses, however, the gender mix  
is 78% female. These variations in market rates  
of pay between functions also contribute to  
the gender pay gap.
Use of contractors.  
As is common practice across the UK labour 
market, our Technology business also brings 
in contractors for their specialist skills and 
technology expertise. Over 80% of the 
contractors working with us in the reporting 
period were male, and these contractors often 
attract high levels of remuneration due to scarcity 
of skills or highly competitive markets, which also 
impacts the mean figure. For example, removing 
contractors from the measurement reduces the 
Penguin Random House UK mean gender pay 
gap to from 11.3% to 8.1%.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 6

Understanding the numbers

Proportion of employees 
receiving a bonus
Our bonus awards are gender neutral

In the period covered by the report, all Penguin 
Random House UK employees were entitled 
to receive a bonus or profit share after one 
year within the organisation, regardless of 
role or gender. Importantly, bonus and profit 
share payments are based on our company 
performance, with employees performing similar 
roles receiving the same bonus percentage. 
Accordingly, the proportion of male and female 
colleagues receiving a bonus or profit share was 
79.8% and 77.6% respectively; the difference 
merely resulting in the gender mix of new 
joiners to the company who had not yet 
become eligible to join the scheme. 

Bonus pay
Our analysis of our bonus gap shows that, using 
the mean measure, men are paid 33% more in 
bonuses than women. We know our bonus awards 
are gender neutral. However, in some functions, 
we see a greater mean bonus gap because of 
higher variable pay, reflecting market practice in 
that sector, and fewer women in these roles.

As with the reasons behind our mean pay gap, the 
level of bonus paid increases with seniority, and 
our mean bonus gap is influenced by the shape of 
our organisation and job mix within the company; 
with a higher proportion of men in more senior 
roles when compared to the overall gender split.

This is further compounded by the fact that 
almost 12% of our employees have chosen to 
work flexibly by reducing their working hours, 
and 87% of these are women. The calculations 
required for the bonus gap measure do not take 
into account that part-time workers have a pro-
rated bonus opportunity.

Using the median measure, women are paid 
24.4% more in bonuses than men. A factor 
causing a difference in median pay between men 
and women across the business is the appeal of 
different sectors to different demographics. For 
example, just over 40% of all men who received a 
bonus payment are in non-managerial warehouse 
roles, where a lower fixed profit share bonus is 
paid reflecting market practise in this sector.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 7

Where we are now

At Penguin Random House UK we believe that a 
supportive, stimulating and inclusive working culture 
enables and encourages people to work to the 
best of their ability. We also recognise that one size 
doesn’t fit all, and that we need to provide a broad 
range of learning and development opportunities to 
help all our colleagues reach their potential.

We already have a number of initiatives and 
programmes in place to support our colleagues, 
such as those overleaf.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 8

Family friendly policies

n  Enhanced maternity and adoption pay (25 

weeks full pay) in addition to enhanced 
paternity leave (4 weeks full pay).

n  Shared parental leave to give colleagues and 
their partners more flexibility in how to share 
the care of their child in the first year after birth 
or adoption. For any shared parental leave 
taken within the first 25 weeks of the child’s 
birth, we increase the statutory level of shared 
parental pay to full basic salary.

n  For eligible entry- to middle-level colleagues, 
we offer company paid childcare vouchers to 
help care for a child under the age of 5. Other 
colleagues, or those with children over the age 
of 5, are able to buy vouchers through a salary 
sacrifice scheme.

n  The majority of employees are given the 

opportunity to work ‘summer hours’ for up 
to 12 weeks every year; allowing them to 
leave work from 1pm on designated Friday 
afternoons to spend more time with their family 
or pursue their hobbies during the summer.

Opportunities for learning and 
development

n  Leadership courses to help our current and future 
leaders develop and enhance their skills, including 
our Creative Leadership Programme.

n  Internal mentoring and coaching programmes 

available to all colleagues.

n  We’ve joined the 30% club this year, an external 
cross-industry mentoring scheme which matches 
women with potential with male or female mentors.

n  450 of our employees have undertaken unconscious 
bias training, with the aim of making this mandatory 
for hiring managers in 2018.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 9

Where we 
want to be

We recognise there is more we can do  
to better support women working across 
our organisation, to level the playing  
field and ensure a truly gender neutral 
working environment. We believe that 
there are four key areas of focus in order 
to achieve this:

n  Work towards a more balanced gender 
representation in the layer below senior 
leadership. With the shape of our organisation 
a significant contributing factor to our gender 
pay gap, we need to better encourage and 
support women moving into and up through 
the company, particularly at a more senior level.

n  Provide even better support for returning 
mothers. We want to do more for returning 
mothers during their transition back to work 
after maternity leave or an extended period of 
time away from the office. We are identifying 
ways to make this process even easier, to better 
help returning mothers find their feet back at 
work without compromising time at home or 
with their family. 

n  Explore more flexible working options for both 

female and male colleagues. We recognise 
the need to provide a more flexible working 
environment for our colleagues as they seek 
to strike a better balance between their work 
and personal lives, and we will implement more 
flexible working options for all employees in 
2018.

n  Introduce pay banding. We are currently 

working on the introduction of a robust job 
evaluation process. This will enable us to create 
a framework of transparent pay ranges that 
avoids any gender bias.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 10

Our commitment to inclusion

Earlier in 2017 we set ourselves a company-wide goal 
to measure our impact from a diversity and inclusivity 
standpoint over time: we want both our new hires and  
the authors we acquire to reflect UK society by 2025. 
This means we want our new authors and colleagues to reflect the 
make-up of the UK population; taking into account gender, ethnicity, 
sexuality, social mobility and disability. We want to see a positive shift 
towards this goal every year through to 2025.

We recognise that we need to seek out new voices that speak to all 
our audiences, making sure our books, our stories and our industry 
are for everyone. In addition to diversifying our publishing teams, 
we are committed to to seeking, attracting and publishing a more 
diverse range of writers. Through programmes like WriteNow, our 
flagship outreach and mentoring programme for unpublished writers, 
we are also actively working hard to bring underrepresented voices to 
bookshelves across the UK.

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 11

Sourcing new talent

We recruit on potential, not qualifications, to make sure  
that our roles are open to everyone.

n  We have removed the requirement for a university 

degree for all our new jobs

n  We pay all our interns the London Living Wage

n  Our annual entry-level programme, The Scheme, aims  
to find talented candidates based solely on their ideas 
and potential

n  We’ve introduced paid work experience placements, 

n  Our Helen Fraser Fellowship offers a six-month paid 

banned personal referrals and introduced random 
selection to ensure everyone has an equal opportunity  
to apply

placement for BAME (Black Asian Minority Ethnic) 
candidates within our prestigious publishing imprint 
Hamish Hamilton

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 12

Working at Penguin Random House

Hannah Telfer
Managing Director, 
Audiences and 
Audio

Jo Pillai
Group Publishing 
Operations 
(Children’s)

I believe in flexible working. When there is 
a commitment from both the employer and 
employee to make it work, flexible working can 
be the key to a positive balance that benefits 
everyone. I moved to working four days in the 
office after I had my first child, over 12 years ago. 
I’ve learnt to be more focused and to use my time 
effectively. Having a day at home a week is very 
important to me: it gives me more time with my 
children and valuable headspace. And that’s felt 
even more critical as my role at Penguin Random 
House has evolved. I trust my team and I’m 
hugely proud of all that we achieve together in 
one of the fastest growing parts of our business. 

 I’ve worked in the publishing operations team for 
our Children’s division for the past 15 years, the 
last 12 of which I have worked part-time through 
a job share. I first decided to work part-time 
when my daughter started school, when, with my 
husband regularly travelling abroad for work, I 
needed to be around to care for her. A colleague 
of mine was looking for a similar arrangement, so 
we approached our manager about the possibility 
of a job share. She was incredibly supportive and 
keen to ensure that the team could make use of 
both our expertise without compromising our 
work/life balance. Currently I work three days and 
my colleague works the other two. The job share 
works very smoothly; we leave each other detailed 
handover notes, manage our workload together 
and schedule meetings so that we can alternately 
attend. The structure and flexibility it has given 
both of us has been incredibly useful.

David 
Woolnough
Head of Accounting 
Services, Finance

As a father, spending time with my two children 
has always been one of my main priorities. An 
important personal goal has been balancing 
this commitment with the responsibilities and 
development opportunities presented by my 
career and, for me, having a flexible working 
arrangement has allowed me to achieve this. 
On Wednesday and Thursday each week I work 
reduced hours in the office, which allows me to 
drop my children at school two mornings a week 
and collect on one of the days. The company’s 
technology landscape actively supports remote 
working and I’ve worked with HR to ensure that 
every aspect of my work, including services 
provided and line manager responsibilities, are 
covered and not adversely impacted. I am very 
lucky to have an extremely talented team working 
with me, and this has also provided opportunities 
for team members to take a more active role in 
meetings or projects. 

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 13

Statutory 
disclosure

Under the Regulations we are 
required to report the gender pay 
gap for each of our legal employing 
entities with more than 250 
employees. As a result of a merger in 
July 2013 Penguin Random House UK 
has two employing entities: Random 
House Group and Penguin Books 
Ltd. Dorling Kindersley (DK) operates 
independently of Penguin Random 
House UK however its employees are 
also employed by Penguin Books.

We have therefore voluntarily 
reported our gender pay gap data as 
Penguin Random House, excluding 
DK as this reflects a meaningful data 
set for our organisation. We have  
also provided separate data for  
The Random House Group and 
Penguin Books Ltd (including DK)  
as disclosed here:

The 
Random 
House 
Group

Penguin 
Books Ltd  
& DK

Hourly pay 

Bonus pay

13.9%

Median gender 

pay gap

5.3%

45.2%

16.4%

Mean gender 

pay gap

Median bonus 

pay gap

Mean bonus 

pay gap

Proportion of colleagues 
receiving a bonus payment

73.7% 74.8%

-9.5%

Median gender 

pay gap

30.4% 35.8%

6.1%

Mean gender 

pay gap

Median bonus 

pay gap

Mean bonus 

pay gap

Proportion of colleagues 
receiving a bonus payment

93.6% 88.7%

Proportion of males 
and females in each 
pay quartile

Top Quartile

Upper Middle 

45.4%
54.6%
60.9%
39.1%
Quartile
31.5% Lower Middle 
Quartile 68.5%
47.1% Lower Quartile 52.9%

Top Quartile

Upper Middle 

38.9%
61.1%
24.7%
75.3%
Quartile
26.4% Lower Middle 
Quartile 73.6%
51.2% Lower Quartile 48.8%

Penguin Random House Gender Pay 2017 | 14

