    Menu       Menu         Home    ▽     About     Explore…     Health and Safety     History     Modern Slavery Statement     Tax Strategy     Gender Pay Gap        Health and Safety  History  Modern Slavery Statement  Tax Strategy  Gender Pay Gap     ▽     Careers     Explore…     Why SPIE?     Graduates     Professional Trainees     Apprenticeships     Views from Team SPIE     Careers Search        Why SPIE?  Graduates  Professional Trainees  Apprenticeships  Views from Team SPIE  Careers Search        Resource Hub    ▽     Building Services     Services   Commissioning & Surveys  Controls & Data  Electrical HV & LV  Mechanical & HVAC  Public Health  TEGG     Sectors     Commercial Offices     Energy     Custodial     Data Centres     Education     Hotels & Leisure     Healthcare     Aviation      Explore…     SPIE GarsideLaycock     SPIE Alard     SPIE Matthew Hall        Commissioning & Surveys  Controls & Data  Electrical HV & LV  Mechanical & HVAC  Public Health  TEGG  Commercial Offices  Energy  Custodial  Data Centres  Education  Hotels & Leisure  Healthcare  Aviation  SPIE GarsideLaycock  SPIE Alard  SPIE Matthew Hall     ▽     Facilities Services     Services   FM-Core  Blue FM  MRO Procurement  Engineering Led FM  Complimentary Services     Sectors     Manufacturing     Financial     Commercial     Education and College     IT, Data and Telecoms     Heritage & Museums      Explore…     SPIE Matthew Hall     365 Facilities        FM-Core  Blue FM  MRO Procurement  Engineering Led FM  Complimentary Services  Manufacturing  Financial  Commercial  Education and College  IT, Data and Telecoms  Heritage & Museums  SPIE Matthew Hall  365 Facilities     ▽     Industrial Services     Services   Maintenance Asset Care  Design  Mechanical  Electrical & Instrumentation  HV     Sectors     Energy     Utilities     Steel     Oil & Gas     Infrastructure     Petrochemical     Manufacturing      Explore…     SPIE MSS     SPIE EE        Maintenance Asset Care  Design  Mechanical  Electrical & Instrumentation  HV  Energy  Utilities  Steel  Oil & Gas  Infrastructure  Petrochemical  Manufacturing  SPIE MSS  SPIE EE     ▽     Distribution & Transmission     Services   Survey and Design  HV and LV New Build  Transmission Refurbishment  Storm Response     Sectors     Distribution     Transmission      Explore…     SPIE ENS     Leven Energy Services        Survey and Design  HV and LV New Build  Transmission Refurbishment  Storm Response  Distribution  Transmission  SPIE ENS  Leven Energy Services     ▽     Multi Tech Services     Services   Fire & Security Systems  Building Services  Facilities Services  Industrial Services  Prefabrication Services     Explore…     SPIE Scotshield        Fire & Security Systems  Building Services  Facilities Services  Industrial Services  Prefabrication Services  SPIE Scotshield        Contact Us      Get in touch         Home  »    About  »   Gender Pay Gap         Gender Pay Gap   This GPG report gives a snap shot of the gender balance within SPIE UK and measures the difference between the average earnings of all male and female employees.          What is Gender Pay Gap (GPG) reporting?  Under new legislation all employees with 250+
employees must now report on statutory calculation showing the size of their
GPG. The GPG gives a snap shot of the gender
balance within an organisation and it measures the difference between the
average earnings of all male and female employees.  This is different to equal pay which is about
ensuring that men and women are paid the same for carrying out the same work. We have to report on 6 specific calculations
namely; 1. Average gender pay gap as a mean average 2. Average gender pay gap as a median average 3. Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average 4. Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average 5. Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females receiving a bonus payment 6. Show the proportion of males and females within each pay quartile by dividing into 4 groups ordered from lowest to highest pay In addition to this the GPG reporting
specifies the date on which the information is to be captured – which is known
as the snapshot date (5 th April). In calculating the above Ordinary Pay includes:  basic
pay, allowances, pay for piecework, shift pay. Bonus includes:  profit share, productivity, performance,
incentive, commission. All of the above pay must be comparable so
everything is converted into an hourly rate again using specific calculations
as supplied under the GPG regs. The results : 1. Mean pay diff between male and female employees = 37.60% 2. Median pay difference between male and female employees = 38.50% 3. Mean Bonus difference between male and female employees = 30.73% 4. Median Bonus difference between male and female employees = 63.80% 5. Bonus proportion shows 13.03% of males as receiving a bonus versus 1.64% of females     Gender Split by Pay Band Explained  Pay Band A - Up to £8.60 per hour  487 Females & 350 Males This quartile is made up of 837 employees who are the lowest paid within SPIE. Band/quartile A has a maximum payment of up to £8.60 per hour. This band has the highest amount of females compared to other bands/quartiles. This tells us that most of our females are in the lowest paid jobs. Please note that this band would be made up of mostly cleaners on minimum wage. Pay Band B - £8.62-£12.17  327 Females & 511 Males This quartile is made up of 838 employees who are the second lowest paid within SPIE. Band/quartile B has a minimum payment of £8.62 per hour and maximum payment of up to £12.17 per hour. This band has the second highest amount of females compared to other bands/quartiles. The amount of women compared to band/quartile A is roughly half and the amount of men roughly doubles in number. Pay Band C - £12.17-£17.67  124 Females & 714 Males This quartile is made up of 838 employees who are the second highest paid within SPIE. Band/quartile C has a minimum payment of £12.17 per hour and maximum payment of up to £17.67 per hour. This band has the third least amount of females compared to other bands/quartiles. Pay Band D - Above £17.69 per hour 96 Females & 742 Males This quartile is made up of 838 employees who are the highest paid within SPIE. Band/quartile D has a minimum payment of up to £17.69 per hour. This band has the highest amount of males compared to other bands/quartiles. This tells us that most of our males are in the highest paid jobs.   ​Understanding SPIE UK's GPG  SPIE UK’s GPG is based on the snap shot date of 5 April 2017. It is based on a total population in scope of 3351 Employees and split with 1034 females and 2317 males so a population where 31% is female and 69% is male. Whilst we have a about a third of our population represented by females it is worth noting that the majority of these females are based in the lowest earning quartile carrying out part time cleaning work which is not a core part of our service offering. SPIE UK operates in an Industry that has typically male dominated activities such as engineering, construction, cables, facilities maintenance and installation and so we will see male dominance in all the quartiles and also at the higher salary end hence the reason for the GPG being as it is. The under representation of women in Senior Functional and Senior Operational roles is the main reason for the GPG in SPIE Ltd. Many females join the Company in Admin and Advisory capacities where the salary progression may not be as quick as that attained in the Operational roles. There will be, of course, other external factors such as attractiveness of the Industry to women and the benefits they may deem as important at odds with what is currently on offer. The Bonus gap is high is due to the fact that the term ‘bonus’ has quite a wide scope under the GPG reporting requirements (not just payments under the Bonus schemes but includes productivity, incentive, daily bonus, client bonus etc). The scope therefore captures payments which are made to many of our weekly paid trade employees where we have a large male dominated presence so this has a big impact of the size of the gap, as well as the fact that there is under representation of females at a senior level and so fewer of them within the appropriate bonus pool.   ​What are we doing to close SPIE UK's GPG?  1. Making SPIE UK more female friendly - we have introduced a forum called 'So'SPIE Ladies' to encourage females within SPIE to network and share experiences. This is not just a female network...So SPIE Ladies runs regular workshops to stimulate debate on subjects such as stereotyping, what can be done to attract more females into the industry and other key topics. 2. On the back of the 'So'SPIE Ladies' forum we have looked to encourage female inclusion in the SPIE UK mentoring programme. 3. We are tackling and setting KPIs for female representation on key Leadership Development programmes such as SPIE Talents and the SPIE UK Leadership Development programme (the current cohort has a 50/50 split male/female). 4. We will be sponsoring the Woman of the Year Award which looks to honour 'inspirational and extraordinary' women and recognises achievements across a range of field. 5. Focus on female in sport - in recent years we have sent a female team to participate in La Parisienne an annual mass female running event in Paris each year, plus we include and encourage female participation in the SPIE Football tournament.   ​More to do:  Whilst the above areas go some way to help raise the profile of females within SPIE UK there is still some way to go to encourage a wider representation across all our disciplines and especially in the Operational and Engineering fields.  Focus areas:  1. How do we attract more females to SPIE? This will be looking at how we recruit and the source of recruitment. We currently work with Schools in order to attract young people into the Industry, however, we need to expand this and look at ways to reach out to young females to consider their career options with SPIE.  2. Flexibility: Offering more flexibility in benefit provision, working hours and maternity benefits in an effort to attract women into SPIE. As technology evolves and remote working becomes an accepted way of working this may in turn help attract females into the company.  3. Career Development: Working closely with females who aspire to develop to more senior roles and support them in their career with us.    DOWNLOAD THIS REPORT     Stay up to date with the latest news on SPIE UK    Submit                   About    Modern Slavery Statement    Health and Safety    Tax Strategy    Gender Pay Gap    History      Careers    Why SPIE?    Graduates    Professional Trainees    Apprenticeships    Views from Team SPIE    Careers Search      Building Services    Mechanical & HVAC    Public Health    Electrical HV & LV    Commissioning & Surveys    Controls & Data    TEGG    Aviation    Commercial Offices    Data Centres    Energy    Hotels & Leisure    Custodial    Healthcare    Education    SPIE GarsideLaycock    SPIE Matthew Hall      Facilities Services    Engineering Led FM    FM-Core    MRO Procurement    Blue FM    Complimentary Services      Industrial Services    Electrical & Instrumentation    Mechanical    Maintenance Asset Care    Design    Energy    Infrastructure    Oil & Gas    Manufacturing    Petrochemical      Distribution & Transmission    Transmission Refurbishment    HV and LV New Build    Survey and Design    Storm Response      Multi Tech Services    Prefabrication Services    Building Services    Facilities Services    Industrial Services        Expand     © SPIE UK, 2018 | Privacy | Cookies  site by                  