Pizza Hut Delivery (registered as Yum! III) 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting March 2018

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap is the difference in average pay between men and woman across an 
organisation, regardless of their role. Discrepancy in pay between men and women may be 
for a variety of reasons including the number of women and men in each role or the number 
of men and women across the business.
Gender Pay reporting applies to all UK companies with over 250 employees. It involves ranking 
employees by their average hourly pay and then splitting them into four equal quartiles – 
Lower, Lower Middle, Upper Middle and Upper.
ABOUT PIZZA HUT IN THE UK
Pizza Hut is the largest pizza company in the world with around 16,000 Huts across 106 
countries, operating as a franchise model. In the UK, Pizza Hut is two separate businesses – the 
Restaurants business is operated by private equity firm Rutland Partners, who have submitted 
Gender Pay Gap figures separately. 
Pizza Hut Delivery (registered as Yum! III) which this document refers to, operates over 400 
Huts, with around 75 franchise partners, of varying size. 
Therefore, Pizza Hut Delivery is required to submit data from the 48 Pizza Hut Delivery stores 
that are company owned. Franchises with over 250 employees are required to submit their 
own data. Our data includes employees across four categories: Driver/Bike Rider, Team 
Member, Manager and Restaurant Support Centre (RSC) employees. 
PIZZA HUT’S APPROACH TO EQUALITY
Pizza Hut is committed to building an inclusive culture among our employees, franchisees, 
and suppliers across gender, ethnicity, race, religion, age, sexual orientation and professional 
background to reflect the diversity of our customers. 
Gender equality is incredibly important to our business and we are committed to ensuring that 
women and men are given equal opportunities to reflect their skills and performance when it 
comes to pay, recruitment, promotions and development. 
OUR RESULTS 
We pay team members and drivers according to their age and job role and Restaurant 
General Managers (RGMs) are paid according to the size and performance of the store they 
are based in. RSC salaries are determined by bench marking roles against similar positions 
at comparable organisations. We follow a robust, calibrated annual pay review and bonus 
system which is business and individual performance based. 

MEDIAN

MEAN

Female
£7.20

Male
£7.20

Female
£9.40

Male
£9.11

EXPLAINING THE GENDER PAY GAP 
The results for the Lower, Lower Middle and Upper Middle quartiles are reflective of store 
based employees with a job role of Team Member or Driver. 
60% of employees in our Team Member roles are women, however only 5% of those employed 
as Drivers/Bike Riders are female. All roles are open to male and female applicants however 
we see a significant disparity in the number of females applying for Driver roles.  
Team Members are paid the National Minimum Wage and work within normal store operating 
hours on a rotating roster basis. Also included are Drivers who are paid more in order for us to 
remain competitive in the market.  We need more drivers during our busiest periods which is 
predominantly on the weekend and in the evenings. The difference in role diversity explains 
the salary discrepancy between men and women in the lower quartile as employees in the 
driver roles are paid at a higher hourly rate than those in Team Member roles.
The Upper quartile results include hourly paid Drivers and Shift Managers, salaried RGMs and 
salaried RSC employees. Overall within the Shift Manager and RGM roles 35% of employees 
are women, slightly higher than the percentage in the team members and drivers group. 
Within the RSC women make up 46% of the population. 

JOB ROLE SPLIT

Manager

Team 
Member

RSC

Driver

BONUS EXPLAINED 
You become eligible for bonus when you become a Shift Manager. The reported difference 
in mean bonus pay between men and women is 9.5%, we have broken this down in the table 
below:

Bonus
Median
Mean

Female

£1,002.20
£1,917.61

Male

£1,021.76
£2,118.60

EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED BONUS PAY %

Female
11

Male
8.2

The Pizza Hut UK Bonus is applicable only within the Upper quartile.  Shift Manager and RGM 
bonus is calculated based on a combination of individual and store performance. RSC team 
member performance is calculated based on a combination of individual and business 
performance. 

GOING FORWARD
We are pleased that the government is pushing organisations to generate, review and disclose 
the gender pay gap for their business, and have welcomed the chance to analyse our own 
numbers. Our results have given us a chance to refocus as a business on our priorities and 
share our results with key business stakeholders. In particular, this highlights the need to focus 
our efforts on increasing the number of women in Shift Manager and RGM positions. 

Neil Manhas   

 

General Manager   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Katie Mellor

Chief Capability and Culture Officer

