 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

Fylde Coast Academy Trust  

Gender Pay Gap Report (2017)  

 

Introduction: 
 
As  a  Multi  Academy  Trust  with  over  250  employees  FCAT  are  required  to  publish  our 
Gender Pay Gap in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017. 
 
The Gender Pay Gap (GPG) involves carrying out calculations which show the difference 
in  the  average  pay  of  men and  women  in  the  Trust across  all  posts.  This  is  FCAT’s  first 
GPG Report and is based on data from a snapshot date of 31st March 2017.  
 
The GPG is different to equal pay and FCAT has a job evaluation system in place which 
underpins  the  National  School  Teachers  Pay  and  Conditions  and  NJC  Pay  Scales  to 
achieve the same pay for men and women for work of equal value.   
 
The GPG is important to FCAT as it helps us to identify trends in our staffing to reduce the 
GPG. 
   
Gender Pay Gap Data: 
 
On the snapshot date of 31st March 2017 FCAT had 560 relevant employees. Based upon 
hourly rates of pay: 
 

  The Mean Gender Pay Gap for FCAT is 14% 

 

  The Median Gender Pay Gap for FCAT is 12.9% 

 
These  figures  show  the  average  difference  in  the  hourly  rate  of  pay  across  men  and 
women in the Trust.   
 
Bonus Pay: 
 
In the year preceding the snapshot date of 31st March 2017: 
 

  The Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap for FCAT is 16.3% 

 

  The Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap for FCAT is 16.3% 

 

 

  The proportion of male staff that received a bonus from the total number of relevant 

male employees is 1.3% 

  The  proportion  of  female  staff  that  received  a  bonus  from  the  total  number  of 

relevant female employees is 0.3% 

 
 
Pay Quartiles: 
 
All  relevant  employees  were  listed  separately  by  gender  and  were  ranked  according  to 
their hourly rate of pay from lowest to highest. This was then split into 4 equal quartiles to 
show the proportion of male and female staff within the pay quartiles: 
 
 

Gender 

Quartile 

Lower Pay 

Lower-Middle Pay 
Higher-Middle Pay 

Higher Pay 

Male 
24.3% 
20.7% 
30.7% 
32.9% 

 
What key information does the data tell us? 
 

Female 
75.7% 
79.3% 
69.3% 
67.1% 

  Our mean GPG of 14% is lower than the national average recorded by the Office for 

National Statistics in 2016 of 18%. 
 

  We  have  higher  proportions  of  female  employees  in  each  of  the  4  pay  quartiles, 
although we do have a higher proportion of women working within the Trust overall 
(73% of relevant employees).  

 

 

It is likely that the high proportion of women working within term time only and part 
time posts within the Trust has contributed to our GPG. 

 
What happens next? 
 
FCAT is committed to reducing the GPG and over the coming months the Trust will 
undertake further detailed analysis to gain a better understanding of the reasons for the 
GPG and to form an action plan to reduce this.  
 
Tony Nicholson 
FCAT CEO 
 
 
 
 

 

