                                 Home  About Us  Leisureplex Hotels  Alfa Travel  Employee Ownership  Working for Us  Contact Us  Staff Area     Log in               Under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, all businesses with over 250 employees are required to publish their gender pay gap calculations.  The gender pay gap measures the difference in the average hourly rate of pay and bonuses paid between all the men and women in a Company. This is expressed as both a mean (i.e. average) and median (i.e. the middle rate when listed in numerical order).  The gender pay gap is very different to equal pay. Equal pay refers to men and women receiving equal pay for equal work, which is a legal requirement in the UK. All men and women across Alfa Leisureplex Group are paid equally for equivalent roles in our business.      This report covers the gender pay gap report to the snapshot date of 5 th April 2017.         At Alfa Leisureplex Group our mission is to exceed our customers’
                expectations in providing a memorable, high quality holiday experience for
                our guests, characterised by professional standards of service and a warm
                and friendly welcome. To deliver our mission we look for employees who
                naturally share our core values, which not only ensures we continue to
                build on the high levels of customer service provided to our guests, but
                also make the Company a great place to work for all of our team.  Alfa Leisureplex Group is an employee owned Group, comprising the
                businesses of Leisureplex Hotels Limited, Alfa Travel Limited and Alfa
                Coaches Limited. As an employee owned group, our employees are not only our
                workforce but our majority shareholders as well. We are committed to
                ensuring that our Group encourages employee innovation and involvement and
                provides an inclusive culture for our diverse workforce, regardless of
                gender, nationality, age or background.  We are pleased to report that both our Group median and mean gender pay gap
                of 7.3% and 11.7% respectively, are significantly below the UK median and
                mean reported by the Office of National statistics of 18.4% and 17.4%
                respectively*. Furthermore at a Group level our median gender bonus gap is
                nil and our mean gap is -2.5% (i.e. women average more then men).  *ONS gender pay statistics taken from the Annual survey of hours and earnings (ASHE) gender pay gap tables published on ons.gov.uk.  Our analysis shows that our current gap in pay is mainly driven by two things;      We have always believed and continue to believe in recruiting the best
                person for every role regardless of gender. Whilst at the top level our
                Group Executive Board has a majority of females, the rest of our management
                team has a higher proportion of males. In particular there are a higher
                proportion of men in our hotel management, traffic operations, Kitchen,
                Driver and Non Executive Director roles. The gender imbalances we face are
                in line with issues common to our industry and the UK in general, with
                regards to certain professions such as Kitchen and Driver roles being
                dominated by men.      Our male employee owners are more likely to choose roles which pay premiums, reflecting work away from home, or unsociable hours when a shift premium is paid.  As a Group we offer a range of family friendly policies and there is a greater uptake of these arrangements by our female employee owners, which due to the treatment of such arrangements in the relevant calculations contributes to a wider gender pay gap and bonus gap.      We operate family friendly policies and flexible working, supporting our employee owners in returning to work and continuing in their careers following periods of parental leave.  We ensure all of our training programs are inclusive and encourage balanced intake of applications from both female and male applicants alike.  We regularly review the roles within our organisations to ensure we offer a diverse and flexible range of working arrangements.  We have elected employee representatives at all of our locations, who represent our employee base and have a channel of communication with our Trustee Board of Directors and Executive Board of Directors, ensuring an inclusive and consultative culture throughout our Group.  We are introducing Equality and Diversity training for all of our management team across the Group.      Leisureplex Hotels Limited is an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of males and females in our Company.  Leisureplex Hotels Limited is part of the Alfa Leisureplex Group and as the trading and operations of the individual Limited Companies are heavily integrated we have chosen to voluntarily report our gender pay data for the Group as a whole.            Leisureplex Hotels Limited   (statutory disclosure)     Alfa Leisureplex Group consolidated   (voluntary disclosure)      Gender pay gap: mean    6.8%    11.7%      Gender pay gap: median    0.9%    7.3%      Bonus: mean    26.9%    -2.5%      Bonus: median    Nil    Nil      Proportion of men who received a bonus    61.8%    66.3%      Proportion of women who received a bonus    64.1%    67.9%         Proportion of employees in the:     Men %      Women %      Men %      Women %       Lower quartile pay band    43.5    56.5    46.8    53.2      Lower middle quartile pay band    46.0    54.0    42.6    57.4      Upper middle quartile pay band    51.2    48.8    50.6    49.4      Upper quartile pay band    54.0    46.0    62.6    37.4          I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.    Emma Russell       Finance Director   22 March 2018        Legal  Privacy Policy  Gender Pay Statement  Modern Slavery Policy  Cookies      Legal  Privacy Policy  Modern Slavery Policy  Cookies         