 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting – 2017/18 

Published date March 2018 

 

 

 

Ansa Environmental Services  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

Foreword by, Managing Director 

 
 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting requires employers with 250 or workers to publish specific data in relation their workforce.  These include how large the pay gap is 
between male and female workers along with the distribution of male and female workers in the organisation.   
 
Ansa is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity and choice for all our workers.  A diverse and inclusive workforce is not just good for our employees 
but it makes good business sense.   As a service provider to the people of Cheshire we strive to ensure that our workforce reflects the people we serve.  This 
means selecting the right talent and developing people within our organisation that reflect the local community and values of the organisation.  
 
Ansa collected data on the snapshot date and has spent time making sure this data is accurate and correct.  The calculations were carried out by an independent 
consultant.  I am therefore confident that the results published in this document provide an accurate position of the gender pay gap as defined by the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  
 
We are pleased that our pay gap is lower than the national average, as reported by the ONS.  As this is the first year of reporting these figures it sets a benchmark 
that we can use in future years to monitor and assess our progress. 
 
 
Kevin Melling 
Managing Director  
 
March 2018 
 

 

Introduction 
 
In April 2017, the Government introduced legislation requiring all employers with 250 or more employees to calculate and publish six specific measures regarding 
the pay gap between men and women in their organisation.  Relevant organisations are required to collect data on a snapshot date of 5 April 2017 and then 
publish the figures within 12 months of the snapshot date and thereafter publish the same data annually.  The six metrics required by the regulations are: 
 

  The difference in the mean hourly rate of pay 
  The difference in the median hourly rate of pay 
  The difference in the mean bonus pay 
  The difference in the median bonus pay 
  The proportion of male and female employees who were paid bonus pay 
  The proportion of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands 

 
 
As the organisation has more than 250 employees, it is a relevant organisation covered by the regulations and as such data was collected on the snapshot date of 
5 April 2017.  This identified 361 employees included in the Gender Pay Gap analysis of which 59 (16.3%) were female and 302 (83.7%) were male. 
 
The gender pay gap shows the difference in average (mean and median) earnings between all men and women in the workforce. This is expressed as a percentage 
of men’s earnings (e.g. where there is a positive number, women earn % less than men and where there is a minus number, women earn % more than men).  Used 
to its full potential, gender pay gap reporting is a valuable tool for assessing levels of equality in the workforce, female and male participation, and how effectively 
talent is being maximised.   
 
The gender pay gap is different from equal pay. Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally because they are a man or a woman. The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay 
between men and women.  If a workforce has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can indicate there may be a number of issues to deal with, and the individual 
calculations may help identify what those issues are.  In some cases, the gender pay gap may include unlawful inequality in pay but this is not necessarily the case. 
 
The organisation is committed to fairness and equality. In particular, promoting equality of opportunity for all and a culture that values differences. As an 
employer, we want to ensure our workforce is representative of the community it serves and attract and retain talented employees from a wide range of 
backgrounds and with diverse skills and experience.    
 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting  
 
The six metrics required by the 2017 regulations are shown in the tables and 
charts below.  The calculations have been produced according to the 
requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.  We have also provided additional commentary to explain 
the context and results for the organisation. 
 
Metrics 1, 2, 3 and 4 
Difference between men and 
women 
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Gap 
 
Metric 5 
Proportion of employees 
receiving Bonus 
Receiving Bonus 
Not receiving Bonus 
 

Mean (Average)  Median (Middle) 

-28.1% 
-121.8% 

Male 

74.2% 
25.8% 

-6.8% 
0.0% 

Female 

79.7% 
20.3% 

The overall mean gender pay gap for the organisation is -28.1%, which means 
that female employees receive, on average, 28.1% more pay than male 
employees.  The median pay gap is -6.8%, which, again means that female 
pay is higher than male pay.  The organisation’s gender pay gap is below the 
national private sector mean and median of 21.1% and 23.7%1 respectively. 

The average bonus paid to female and male employees was £403.72 and 
£181.99 respectively, creating a mean bonus gap of -£221.74 (-121.8%).  This 
means that women receive, on average £221.74 more bonus than men.  The 
median bonus paid to both female and male employees was £100 making the 
median bonus gap zero. 

                                                           
1 ONS Provisional 2017 Private Sector Gender Pay Gap 

There were 361 workers included in the analysis.  Five were removed as they 
were not ‘full pay’ workers on the snapshot date.  Therefore, the six metrics 
required by the regulations have been calculated on 356 workers. 

The pay gaps do not indicate that male and female employees are being paid 
differently for equal work.  The organisation operates a robust grading 
structure based on a non-discriminatory job evaluation scheme to ensure 
that it complies with equality legislation and provides equal pay for work of 
equal value.   

 
Metric 6 

100%

90%

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

 

18.0% 

7.9% 

13.5% 

82.0% 

92.1% 

86.5% 

24.7% 

75.3% 

1

2

3

4

Male

Female

 

The pay quartile analysis shows that there is a higher proportion of male 
employees in all pay quartile bands.  However, there is a higher proportion of 
women in the top two quartiles compared to the lower two and it is this 
distribution of employees that results in the gender pay gaps.  The 

distribution of employees is more clearly shown in the ‘pyramid’ diagram 
below and demonstrates why there is a difference in the average pay 
between female and male employees. 

 

Note: Diagram for illustrative purposes only - NOT TO SCALE 

workers that fall in each pay level has then been plotted onto the diagram.  
This clearly shows the heavy distribution of male workers in levels one and 
two.  By comparison, although far fewer employees, female workers are 
more evenly spread in levels one, two, three, four and five.  It is this 
distribution of workers that drives the mean and median hourly rates of pay 
and therefore the pay gaps noted above.   

 

The table below shows the number of full time and part time workers at the 
organisation.  The majority of workers at the organisation are full time male 
workers, making up 79% of the total. Full time female workers make up 11%, 
followed by part time female and male workers at 5% and 4% respectively. 

 

Status 
Full time 
Part time 
Total 
 

Female  Male 
287 
15 
302 

41 
18 
59 

Female  Male 
11.3% 
5.0% 

79.5% 
4.1% 

 

 

Total 
328 
33 
361 

The pyramid diagram has simply been produced by creating six equal pay 
levels in the organisation according to the hourly rate.  The number of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Closing the Gap 
 
Ansa is committed to ensuring equality in our workforce.  We are confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from an equal pay issue.  We use structured 
methods of grading to determine the grade and pay of jobs within the organisation.    It is pleasing to be able to report an even spread of female workers in all 
levels of the organisation.  The pay gaps identified through this analysis are a result of worker distribution with a higher proportion of male workers in lower paid 
roles.   
 
There are a number of factors that have probably contributed to Ansa’s ability to recruit and retain females and enable them to develop careers within the 
organisation, these include a number of family friendly policies and procedures such as flexible working, part-time working, career breaks, maternity and parental 
leave, discretionary special leave and access to childcare vouchers 
 
We are an organisation that is keen to provide opportunities for anyone within the workforce to develop their skills and careers.  To that end we have introduced 
our “Step Up” Programme,  to support those employees who would like to progress into first level management positions including those of Team Leader.  The 
programme provides coaching and in-house training including attendance management, investigation training, having difficult conversations, conducting appraisal 
discussions, recruitment and selection and equality and diversity.   
 
We will continue to promote family friendly policies and provide appropriate developmental opportunities across the whole of our organisation.  Going forward 
we will further review our diversity training for all employees including reference to unconscious bias and will review all exit interviews to ascertain trends in 
reasons for leaving. 
 
 

