 

The Salvation Army’s Gender 

Pay Gap Report 2017 

 
Introduction 
From 2018, employers with 250 or more employees are required by law to publish 
gender pay gap information, based on snapshot data from 5 April 2017. This report has 
been prepared in line with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017. 
 
Summary 
The mean gender pay gap for The Salvation Army is 13.9% 
The median gender pay gap for The Salvation Army is 9.3% 
The mean gender bonus gap for The Salvation Army is 0% 
The proportion of male employees in The Salvation Army receiving a bonus is 0% 
The proportion of female employees in The Salvation Army receiving a bonus is 0% 
 
The Salvation Army pay quartiles (number of employees in each pay band) are as 
follows:  
 
Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

199 

251 

294 

356 

688 

637 

594 

531 

 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard rate places them 
above the upper quartile 

 
What causes a gender pay gap at The Salvation Army? 

The Salvation Army is committed to equal opportunities and equal treatment for all 
employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability.  

The Salvation Army’s gender pay gap is the result of the differing roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles, 
while women are more likely than men to be in front-line roles at the lower end of the 
organisation.  

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is not wholly reflected in the make-up of 
The Salvation Army’s workforce, as the majority of employees are women. However, there 
are a higher proportion of front-line employees who are women, while there are a lower 
proportion of women who are managers.  

 

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows The 
Salvation Army’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, 
with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and Band D 
covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay 
gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each band. However, 
within The Salvation Army, 78% of the employees in Band A are women and 22% men. The 
percentage of male employees increases throughout the remaining Bands, from 28% in 
Band B to 40% in Band D. This means that the overall gender pay gap favours male 
employees, because there are proportionately more male employees in higher paid 
roles.  

The distribution of part-time roles across the organisation does reflect the national 
picture, with a much higher percentage of part-time roles at non-managerial levels. At 
non-managerial levels, 75% of all roles are part-time, with over two-thirds of the roles 
held by women. The proportion of part-time roles available at managerial levels drops to 
21%, with only 4% at function head level and none at director level.  

How does The Salvation Army's gender pay gap compare with that 
of other organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap; The Salvation Army's gap 
compares favourably with that of other organisations, including those within other 
religious organisations. 

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy - according to the November 2016 
Office for National Statistics, Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ONS ASHE) figures - is 
18.1%, while for the activities of religious organisations category it is 10.2%. At 9.3%, The 
Salvation Army’s median gender pay gap is lower than both that for the whole economy, 
and that of our sector. 

Comparison with other organisations 

  

The Salvation 
Army 

2016 ONS ASHE all 
sectors 

2016 ONS ASHE – activities 
of religious organisations 

Median gender 
pay gap 

9.3% 

18.1%  

10.2% 

 

What is The Salvation Army doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While The Salvation Army's gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations 
both across the whole UK economy and with other religious organisations, it is not a 
subject about which The Salvation Army is complacent, and it is committed to doing 

 

everything that it can to reduce the gap. However, The Salvation Army also recognises 
that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct control over 
the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make. 

To date, the steps that The Salvation Army has taken to promote gender diversity in all 
areas of its workforce include the following: 

  Developing an evidence base to identify any barriers to gender equality and inform 

priorities for action, including:  

o 

the proportions of men and women obtaining promotions 

o 

the starting salaries of men and women 

o 

the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band 

o 

o 

o 

take-up of part-time working arrangements by gender and level within the 
organisation 

the proportion of men and women who return after a period of maternity or 
other parental leave, 

the proportion of men and women still in post a year on from a return to 
work after a period of maternity or other parental leave 

The initial findings did not find any issues with promotions or starting salaries. 
However, it did reveal fewer part-time opportunities at higher levels and that the 
number of female employees who choose not to return to work with us at the end 
of maternity leave is a little above average.  

 

Introducing the homeworking policy: following the Fit for Mission organisational 
change programme in 2016, the homeworking and peripatetic working policy was 
introduced. This sets out the policy and procedure to be followed to decide 
whether a certain role is suitable for homeworking. 

None of these initiatives will, in isolation, remove the gender pay gap, and it may be 
several years before some have an impact. In the meantime, The Salvation Army is 
committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay 
gap and the progress it is making. 

In the coming year, The Salvation Army is also committed to:  

  extending its evidence-gathering to include qualitative data. It will do this through 
a survey and conducting focus groups across all areas and levels of the organisation 
to identify the barriers (and the drivers) for female employees 
 
increasing its quantitative evidence base, with the proportions of men and women 
applying for jobs and being recruited; the proportions of men and women leaving 
the organisation and their reasons for leaving; and the take-up of flexible working 
arrangements by gender and level within the organisation 

 

 

reviewing and revising its  flexible working policy 

  working with managers to increase the number of jobs at all levels that are 

advertised as flexible, part-time or a job share 
 

 

  developing an overall pay strategy  

 

  consider different amounts of cost of living increase, to proportionately be of 

greater benefit to the less well paid 

 

researching the costs and benefits of becoming a Living Wage Foundation rate 
payer 

This report has been approved by the SATCo (Salvation Army Trustee Company) board. 

I, Lt Colonel Paul Main, Secretary for Personnel, confirm that the information in this 
statement is accurate. 

Signed: 

Date:  19th March 2018 

 

