 

 

                     

 

 

 

 

 

Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies UK Ltd 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

We are confident that our 
pay gap is not caused by 
men and women being  
paid differently to do the 
same job. 

 
 
In 2018, for the first time UK companies with over 250 employees have to report on their 
gender pay gap.  The report provides a snapshot of the gender pay balance within the 
Company as at 5 April 2017.  It measures the difference between the average pay of all 
male and female employees, irrespective of their role or seniority, as well as the difference in 
bonus pay and the gender distribution of staff across four pay quartiles. 
 
At Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies UK we are committed 
to our people and ensuring that everyone no matter what 
their background or gender – has an opportunity to  
develop. We are confident that our gender pay gap is  
not caused by men and women being paid differently  
to do the same job but is driven instead by the structure  
of our workforce. 
 
Like many organisations within our sector we have a gender pay gap. We are pleased that 
the level of difference compares favourably to the national average for comparative sectors 
and many of the particular roles that make up our workforce.  
 
However we are committed to reducing the gender pay gap. It is noted that our gender pay 
gap exists primarily due to a higher proportion of males within the upper quartile. In many 
cases this is due to length of service and age factors. 
 
 
Our key data is presented below: 
 
As of the snapshot date (5 April 2017) the table below shows our overall mean and median 
gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay. These figures include allowances such as shift 
payments.  
 
The percentage shown is the difference in overall mean and median pay and bonus between 
men and women. 
 
 
Pay Difference: 
 

 
 

 

 

Percentage of males & females within each quartile 

Male 

Female 

Upper 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower 

73% 

27% 

54% 

46% 

52% 

48% 

44% 

56% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Our Workforce 
 
Our gender split across the workforce is summarised below: 
 

Female

48%

Male

52%

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

 

 
Over time we are proud to have seen the Company develop to one in which we now have an 
almost even split of male and female staff, we hope to continue to attract the best people 
from all backgrounds and with all characteristics to work with us at Fujifilm. 
 
In 2017 47% of our new recruits were female. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
Bonus Pay: 
 
The vast majority of our workforce receive a bonus. 
 

 

Male 

Female 

% who received a bonus 

84% 

83% 

 
 

 

 

As we have a high percentage of males within our upper quartile this will impact on gender 
pay gap for bonus payments.  Bonus payments are also calculated on actual sums paid and 
therefore don’t reflect a pro-rating for part time staff.   The vast majority of our part time 
workers are female and the pro-rated bonuses for these staff contribute to the differential in 
bonus pay. 
 
 
Moving Forward 
 
Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies is committed to improving equality across our workforce. 
This is embodied in our People Strategy which aims to create an engaged, motivated and 
competent workforce.  
 
This year over 120 of our managers have received training in Recruitment & Selection and 
our policy and procedures have been updated. The objective of these changes are to ensure 
that we can be confident appointment and promotion decisions within our business are fair, 
transparent and justifiable. Our managers now have a greater awareness of the impact of 
‘unconscious bias’ and have confidence in ensuring the methods of attracting and selecting 
candidates to ensure that we consider a range of applicants who meet the requirements of 
the role. 
 
Equality and Diversity is an important part of our people strategy and we will be doing some 
specifically focused work on this area in year three of the strategy by updating our equality 
and diversity policy and providing specific training to our staff and managers.  
 
As an organisation we are committed to developing the workforce of the future and we are 
proud to note that 80% of our current cohort of apprentices are female.  
 
I confirm that the details included in this report are accurate. 
 

 

 
Paul Found 
Chief Operating Officer 

