Gender Pay Gap Report

Introduction

At SRG, we welcome the opportunity 
to share our gender pay gap as it 
will help us have more meaningful 
conversations with our people  
and our customers about equality, 
diversity and inclusion.

SRG has an overall gender pay gap  
of 12.43%, which is below the national 
average of 18.8%.

Of the people included in the 
calculations, 93% are temporary 
workers whose pay is fixed by our 
customers. In the interests of full 
disclosure, we have also chosen  
to provide an analysis of our  
88 permanent UK employees.

Among SRG’s permanent employees 
the median gender pay gap is -10.59%. 
Our pay structure equally rewards men 
and women performing the same roles, 
yet women make up more than half  
of our people in all of our pay quartiles 
except the lowest, giving us a gap  
in favour of women.

Our gender pay gap figures 
demonstrate good progress on gender 
diversity in the often male-dominated 
life sciences sector.

Our own industry salary survey in 
conjunction with New Scientist showed 
that internationally men are paid on 
average £41,240 compared to women 
who on average earn £32,986,  
with the UK having a larger gap 
between male and female salaries 
than the US and Europe.

Gender Pay Gap Reporting will  
help bring attention to these issues  
that need to be addressed across  
our industry. 

We are proud of the progress we  
have made with diversity and inclusion 
and understanding our gender pay  
gap drives us to do more. 

We are investing in a range of initiatives 
to bring about change and this report 
outlines more detail about what we are 
undertaking as part of a broader focus 
on creating a more inclusive workplace.

Kelly Morton

Managing Director, SRG

I confirm the information  
and data reported is accurate as  
of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Julia Robertson  
Group CEO, Impellam Group Plc

2

SRG Gender Pay Gap ReportUnderstanding  
the gender pay gap 

Gender pay vs equal pay 

A gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay across  
all the men and women in an organisation, industry or country  
as a whole. It can be driven by the differing number of men  
and women across all roles. 

It is not the same as an equal pay comparison which looks  
at how much men and women are paid for doing the same role. 

How we calculated  
our numbers

Under the UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation, 
companies need to report their gender pay gap for all legal  
entities in Great Britain with more than 250 employees. We have 
provided data on all of our permanent and temporary employees, 
as required by the regulation. 

Given we are a staffing business we have a very high number of 
temporary workers on our payrolls at any one time. This number 
fluctuates depending on requirements from our clients, and typically 
the rate of pay that our temporary workers receive is decided by our 
clients. We have also reported on our permanent employees only  
and our temporary employees only.

Pay quartiles explained

A pay quartile is calculated by listing the hourly pay rates for 
everyone in the business then dividing them in to four equal  
sized groups. We then work out the percentage of men  
and women in each group. 

Mean and median  
gaps explained

The figure used most regularly is the median gender pay gap.  
To help bring this to life, imagine all of the women at SRG standing 
in one line, from lowest paid by hour to highest, and all of the men 
doing the same in another line. The median gender pay gap is  
the percentage difference in hourly pay between the woman  
in the middle of the line and the man in the middle of the line.  
Hourly pay includes leave and any shift premiums, but not overtime.

Lowest paid

Median

Highest paid

The mean gender pay gap is the percentage difference in the 
average pay of men and women. This is calculated by adding  
up all of the hourly pay rates for all of the women in a business  
and dividing it by the number of women, then doing the same  
for the men and comparing the difference. The mean can be 
affected by different numbers of men and women in different  
roles. This is why we also report the number of men and women  
in different pay quartiles. 

We also report the median and mean differences in bonus  
pay over a twelve-month period, and the percentage of men  
and women who received a bonus. 

A positive percentage shows a gap in favour of men;  
a negative percentage shows a gap in favour of women. 

3

SRG Gender Pay Gap ReportOur figures for 2017

All UK employees, including 
temporary and permanent

Pay - hourly rate

Median

12.43%

Mean

7.00%

Proportion of employees according to quartile bands

Male

Female

Upper 
(highest 
paid)

53%

47%

Upper 
middle

52%

48%

Did you know?

• 

• 

• 

 SRG has a median gender pay gap of 12.43%, which is lower 
than the UK average of 18.8%. Our gender split is slightly in 
favour of women, yet we have a higher percentage of men  
in higher paid roles, giving us a gap. 

 This is also the cause of our gender bonus gap as the 
employees with the opportunity to earn the highest amounts  
of bonus are those in the upper quartiles.

 Among our salaried employees only, we have a reverse  
gender pay gap of -10.59%. We are in the unusual position  
in our industry of having more women in upper quartiles  
and more men in lower quartiles. 

Permanent employees only

Median / mean hourly pay gap 

Median / mean bonus pay gap 

57%

% males / females receiving a bonus payment 

Upper quartile (male / female %) 

Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower quartile (male / female %) 

-10.59 / 4.93%

39.21 / 45.69%

71.11 / 63.16%

48.15 / 51.85%

44.44 / 55.56%

50.00 / 50.00%

66.67 / 33.33%

Lower 
middle

46%

54%

Lower 
(lowest 
paid)

43%

Bonus pay difference between men and women

Median

2.39%

Mean

36.02%

Percentage of males / females receiving a bonus payment

Male

48%

Female

49%

Temporary employees only

Median / mean hourly pay gap 

Median / mean bonus pay gap 

% males / females receiving a bonus payment 

Upper quartile (male / female %) 

Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 

Lower quartile (male / female %) 

12.43 / 7.00%

2.39 / 36.02%

48.29 / 49.31%

52.84 / 47.16%

52.13 / 47.87%

46.10 / 53.90%

42.55 / 57.45%

4

SRG Gender Pay Gap ReportHow we are building  
an inclusive business

We are committed to creating an inclusive and diverse business built on trust, and the following initiatives support our goals:

1.   We are nurturing talent 

4.  We address unconscious bias

 

 All our people take and have access to training via our online 
learning system to help them understand, identify and address 
unconscious bias. We also offer this training to our customers 
as and when appropriate.

5.  We facilitate conversations 

around flexible working

 

 We are an inclusive business, and we encourage flexibility, 
including part-time work and home working. We hold 
conversations with managers through Open Blend, our 
coaching and development platform, which enables us to 
explore whether personal ambitions are being met, as well  
as business objectives. By addressing the whole person,  
we will create a more engaged, productive workforce that 
allows our people to be their authentic selves at work.

 

 SRG works with schools, colleges and universities to encourage 
people, both male and female to pursue careers in science, 
clinical and engineering. We give talks and attend careers 
events, we share our industrial and student placements with  
a university network, and we produce an annual survey to  
give people an insight into salaries, benefits and demand  
in the sector. 

2.  We support a Diversity  
and Inclusion Network

 

 As part of the Impellam Group, we participate actively in  
the Diversity and Inclusion network which fosters an inclusive  
and diverse workforce by encouraging positive conversations 
that drive clear action.

3.  We are building a culture  

of Virtuosity 

 

 We continue to invest in our Virtuoso programme which 
recognises that it is our managers who make the difference 
in building trust, relationships and better futures for our clients 
and our people. This focus on Virtuosity is central to our 
strategy and frees our managers from conventional thinking  
so they see new possibilities, enabling our people to realise 
their full potential and to thrive.

5

SRG Gender Pay Gap Reportwww.srg.co.uk

