       Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.             Listen to this page       We use cookies, please read our privacy policy for further information                 Welcome to Bedford Borough Council                    Advanced Search    Site Map | Contact Us | Help          Our Services A - Z :   A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z               Main Menu    Home Page  Community and Living  Equality and Diversity    Equality Analysis  Equality Duty  Diversity Monitoring  Equality and Diversity Network  Equality Information  Equality Objectives 2016-2020               You are here:  Home Page > Community and Living > Equality and Diversity >
Equality Information   Public Sector Equality Duty: Equality Information  Under section 149 of the Equality Act 2010
(the Public Sector Equality Duty) and the Equality Act 2010
Specific Duties Regulations 2011, the Council is required to
publish equality information to demonstrate our compliance with the
aims of the general equality duty. The information published on
this page is our response to the Public Sector Equality Duty.  On this page you can find links to information
that is used to identify equality issues and information that
demonstrates consideration of the general equality duty. This
information is regularly updated.    Workforce  We publish an annual workforce report.
This has information on workforce equality monitoring data the
Council collects.  Click below to download the
Annual Workforce Equality Monitoring Report  2016 -
2017  2015 -
2016  2014 -
2015    Equality Analysis  In order to have due regard to the
aims of the general equality duty, the Council carries out equality
analyses. This helps us to understand the impact of our policies
and practices on people with protected characteristics. In carrying
out an equality analysis, service areas will have considered
information about who uses their services. Equality analysis
reports are published centrally on the website.  Click here to view equality analysis reports
completed by service areas.    Complaints  All complaints received by the Council
are monitored for diversity. This helps identify any trends for
service areas to deal with.    Adult Social Care
complaints  We published information on customer
feedback received for Adult Social Care.  This can be found
on our committee pages. The report highlights the steps
that Adult Social Care continues to take to ensure that the
services we are providing are increasingly customer-focussed. It
also provides an analysis of equality monitoring.  Click here to view the Customer Service Feedback Report 2013 -
2014    Children's Services Schools
and Families  We publish information on our customer feedback received for
Children’s Services Schools and Families. The reports
provide equality monitoring information on the service
users making a complaint.  Click here to view the Children's Services Schools and Families
Feedback Report 2013 - 2014    Engagement  Equality & Diversity
Network  The Council supports and facilitates the work
of the Bedford Borough Equality & Diversity Network. The
Network provides ongoing engagement with organisations and
community groups representing diverse communities and is an
independent advisory, scrutiny and consultative network on equality
issues. It supports the Council’s policy and service
development by:   Scrutinising and evaluating strategic priorities of service
areas  Raising awareness on local needs in regards to the protected
equality groups and other disadvantaged communities  Informing the development of council initiatives to overcome
barriers  Identifying opportunities to further meet the 3 aims of the
general equality duty   Click here to view minutes of the Equality
& Diversity Network.    Consultation  The Corporate Consultation Team assists services across the
Council in undertaking consultation projects.  Many
consultations involve using a response form and the
form contains optional diversity monitoring questions. 
The answers to these questions are analysed and used to develop an
annaul Diversity Monitoring Report.  Click
here to view the Consultation Equality Report 2013/14    Health and Wellbeing
Board  Bedford Borough's Health and Wellbeing Board was
established in January 2012.  It brings together those who buy
services across health, social care and children's services. 
The board has agreed a shared vision and initially nine priorities
to improve the health and wellbeing of the Borough's
residents.  The Council has been working  with key stakeholders in
a more integrated way.  This new way of working
is helping to plan and improve the health and wellbeing of the
population of Bedford Borough.  Click here to view more information about Health and
Wellbeing  Click here to view the minutes of the Health and Well Being
Board    Access Group  The Council supports and facilitates the work of the Bedford
& District Access Group. The Access Group is an expert body on
issues relating to physical and sensory impairment. It identifies
opportunities for improving accessibility to buildings, services
and the natural environment across Bedford Borough.    Initiatives and key strategies to support
equality  To find out more about key initiatives and strategies the
Council has developed to support equality click on the following
links.  Joint Commissioning Strategies      Don't Miss   This website provides information on the services delivered by
Bedford Borough Council.      Useful Links   Equality & Human Rights
Commission  Bedford
Borough Partnership               Legal Disclaimer | Privacy Policy | Accessibility Statement | Statistics    Copyright © 2018 Bedford Borough Council - all other trademarks are acknowledged as belonging to their respective owners. All rights reserved.         Browser does not support script.    Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.             Stay Connected  Sign up for email alerts!      Your Email:        No Thanks  Subscribe Now         