Gender 
Pay Gap

REPORT 2018

P A G E   1

G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

BlueBay Asset Management (BlueBay) is a leading European-based specialist active 
manager of fixed income, entrusted by clients with over USD60 billion in AuM (as at 
31 December 2017) in corporate and sovereign debt, rates and FX. 

Our purpose is to protect and grow our clients’ assets and 
redefine best practice in asset management. Our core values 
are respect and collaboration, individual excellence and 
integrity, which are reflected in how we act internally and with 
our stakeholders. 

We are committed to recruiting and developing talented and 
diverse individuals at all levels of their careers. 

We believe in engagement; nurturing and supporting an 
inclusive diverse work place results in better team dynamics 
and decision making. This leads to superior outcomes for our 
clients and business.

As part of our broader approach to diversity and inclusion, we 
continue to attract talented individuals at all levels and pay our 
employees fairly for their role. We provide all employees with 
a number of supportive policies, leave allowances and flexible 
working arrangements. We also promote a healthy work/life 
balance and support employee well-being through annual 
benefits roadshows.

BlueBay is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada 
with full investment autonomy and substantial operational 
independence. 

This report refers to information for 
BlueBay Asset Management Corporation Ltd employees.

The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 require all UK employers with 250 or more 
employees to publish:

•  the difference between the average and median hourly 
  rate of pay paid to men and women, irrespective of their 
  role

•  the difference between the average and median bonus 
  paid to men and women

•  the proportions of men and women who receive bonuses

•  the relative proportions of men and women in each 
  quartile pay band of the workforce

Hourly pay rates are calculated as at 5 April 2017 and bonuses 
are calculated based on the 12-month period ending 
5 April 2017.

Our compensation philosophy 
ensures all awards are fairly and 
objectively made for performance. 
We undertake regular reviews 
and benchmark analysis to 
ensure employees are rewarded 
appropriately for their roles and to 
attract, develop and retain talent.

P A G E   2

G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

Our gender pay
Gender pay reporting refers to the legal requirement for UK employers to publish the difference between the average and 
median pay paid to men and women, irrespective of their roles, the proportion of men and women who receive a bonus, and the 
proportion of men and women within each quartile pay band. 

Mean (gender pay 
gap hourly rate)

Median (gender pay 
gap hourly rate)

Mean (bonus gap)

Median (bonus gap)

BlueBay Asset Management

19.2%

8.8%

55.6%

38%

Our gender pay gap is due to our workforce consisting of a greater proportion of men in senior roles compared to women.

BlueBay gender distribution 

47%

34%

31%

13%

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

53%

66%

69%

87%

WOMEN

MEN

Gender distribution across equally sized quartiles shows we have more men in senior, higher-paying roles compared to 
women, although the balance is addressed at more junior levels.

P A G E   3

NOTE: ‘MEAN’ REFERS TO THE AVERAGE NUMBER WITHIN THE DATA SET. ‘MEDIAN’ IS THE MIDDLE VALUE FROM THE DATA SET. G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

11%

13%

% MALE 

EMPLOYEES 
RECEIVING A 

BONUS 

12%
89%

Bonus

No Bonus

Bonus

No Bonus

% FEMALE 
EMPLOYEES 
RECEIVING A 

BONUS 

87%

35%

FIRM WIDE 
GENDER SPLIT

65%

These charts show a similar proportion of men and women received bonuses 
(referring to total award value, inclusive of deferred amounts).

Attracting, developing and retaining 
talented women is a priority for us

As outlined below, we have taken, and will continue to take, action to achieve our objectives. 

Firm-wide diversity training to raise awareness to all staff about the importance of diversity and combat 
unconscious bias. We successfully ran diversity training with senior managers in 2017 and will roll the 
course out firm-wide in 2018.

Provide a comprehensive range of family-friendly policies, including enhanced maternity and paternity 
pay and enhanced shared parental leave. We actively promote flexible working and have a successful 
track record of implementing part-time working and working-from-home arrangements.

To follow a structured recruitment process, with gender-neutral language throughout all job descriptions 
and ensuring a diverse range of interviewers.

Appointment of a senior leader as Diversity Champion: James Brace, General Counsel and member of the 
Management Committee.

Launch an Employee Forum to openly share experiences and views with colleagues to provide employees 
with a platform to put forward ideas and considerations to benefit all employees.

Establish a women’s forum to provide an opportunity to share ideas, strengthen leadership networks and 
support junior to intermediate talent.

P A G E   4

D E C L A R A T I O N

I confirm the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate.

..............................................................................

James Brace
Director

P A G E   5

