TJW Contract Solutions Limited 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

 

 

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) regulations 2017. 

This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of male and female 
employees in our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employees’ data. 

We are required to publish the results on our own website and a government website. We will do this within one 
calendar year of from 5th April each year. 

These results can be used to assess: 

•  The levels of gender equality in our organisation 
•  The balance of male and female employees at different levels 
•  How effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded 

The results of our Gender Pay Gap Reporting for 2017 are as follows: 

 

Gender Pay Gap 

Gender Bonus Gap 
 

The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment: 

The proportion of males and females in each quartile band: 

Upper: 

Upper Middle: 

Lower Middle: 

Lower: 

Mean:  Median: 

-3.6% 

0.0% 

-0.3% 

-248.0% 

Male: 

Female: 

96.8% 

99.4% 

 

70.0% 

72.5% 

72.5% 

79.4% 

 

30.0% 

27.5% 

27.5% 

20.6% 

Please note that for the figures for ‘mean’ and ‘median’ calculations, a positive value indicates that typically or overall, 
females have a lower pay or bonus than male employees. Conversely, a negative value indicates that typically or overall, 
females have a higher pay or bonus than male employees. 

Supporting Statement 

TJW Contract Solutions is a compliant professional employment umbrella company. As an employer to UK contractors, 
freelancers and agency workers we must include our employees to support Gender Pay Reporting requirements. 

An umbrella company when operating correctly employs its workers through multiple assignments with recruitment 
agencies or end hirers, which offers a vastly simpler process than having multiple employers each year. The employment 
and tax arrangements of an umbrella company sees workers paid a minimum wage salary and a bonus. As a result, the 
figures we have provided above may not support the government’s aim with this legislation. 

We do not negotiate, nor are we otherwise involved in the determination of the worker’s rate of pay or bonus. All 
contractors, freelancers and agency workers have negotiated the contract rate of pay with a recruitment agency or end 
hirer directly before sourcing employment with us. As such pay rates vary widely by sector, skill set and experience. 

The contracting sector is generally a male dominated environment (with some notable exceptions) which is supported 
by our male:female ratio of around 3:1. There are a number reasons for this including that the more mature contractor 
markets are in traditionally male dominated sectors (e.g. IT, Engineering, Construction). 

It is also interesting to note that as a result of the majority our female employees working in social care related roles 
compared with the majority of male employees working in more labour-intensive sectors, the median bonus pay is far 
higher for our female employees than for our male employees. 
 

Karl Williams 
Finance Director 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 FINAL 

 

TJW Contract Solutions Limited 

Haleworth House, Tite Hill, Egham, Surrey TW20 0LR 

Tel: 01784 270300 Fax: 01784 270309 

email: service@tjwcontracts.co.uk 

www.tjwcontracts.co.uk 

#TAG 

