Boots Management Services Limited 
Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

Member of Walgreens Boots Alliance

A message from Elizabeth

I’m  pleased  to  share  with  you  our  gender  pay  gap  report,  which  we  will 
continue to share every year as part of the new UK regulations.
 
Boots has been in business for almost 170 years. We take pride from our long 
heritage  of  championing  and  supporting  women’s  key  issues.    For  us,  this 
report goes beyond just fulfilling a regulatory obligation: it is an important step 
as we all work towards gender equality.  

As  you  will  see  in  our  report,  we  have  already  been  making  progress  on 
closing  our  gender  pay  gap  and  on  the  broader  issues  of  diversity  and 
inclusion. Almost 80% of our colleagues are women. As part of our diversity 
and inclusion agenda, we offer a variety of flexible working options and we 
recently enhanced our maternity pay. 

This  report  is  very  important  for  Boots,  but  also  very  important  for  me 
personally. Florence Boot led the way 100 years ago when she was our first 
female  director.  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  being  the  first  female  Managing 
Director of Boots. For me, it is very important to ensure that all women can 
achieve  their  career  aspirations.  More  broadly,  championing  equality  of 
opportunity and creating an environment where all of our colleagues can thrive 
is very close to my heart and a guiding principle of my leadership.

Elizabeth Fagan
Senior Vice President and Managing
Director of Boots, UK and ROI

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

1

Introduction

Boots  is  the  UK’s  leading  pharmacy-led 
health  and  beauty  retailer,  and  part  of  the 
Retail  Pharmacy  International  Division  of 
Walgreens  Boots  Alliance,  Inc.  (Nasdaq: 
WBA), the first global pharmacy-led, health 
and  wellbeing  enterprise.  Created  almost 
170  years  ago  by  Jesse  Boot,  the  Boots 
brand has always been at the heart of the 
communities  it  serves  and  is  passionate 
about all of its female and male colleagues 
and customers.

Jesse Boot’s wife Florence, took a personal 
interest 
female 
employees  and, 
in  1911,  appointed  a 
welfare   worker    for    women.    In   1918,  

the  welfare  of  her 

in 

Florence  was appointed as one of the first 
female directors of any UK business. Along 
with  Jesse,  Florence  helped  Boots  to  lead 
the way in working practices for colleagues 
and, in 1934, reduced  the   working  week  
from  five  and  a  half  days  to  five  days  per 
week  for  all  factory  employees,  with  no 
reduction in pay. This set a new standard of 
home  and  work  life  balance  in  British 
industry. 

Throughout  our  history,  our  colleagues 
have always been important to us. Equality 
and  closing  the  gender  pay  gap  is  an 
important part of this continued journey. We 
recognise,  however, 
that  meaningful 
change takes time. 

Jesse  Boot,  Founder  of  Boots  and  Florence  Boot, 
Boots’ first female director.

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

We  welcome  the  introduction  of  gender 
pay gap reporting because we see it as an 
opportunity  to  identify  the  root  causes  of 
any  gender  pay  gaps  that  exist  within  our 
company.  Through  our  diversity  and 
inclusion  policies,  we  will  look  to  find 
solutions  for  all  colleagues  that  reflect  a 
changing society and help them to fulfil their 
potential. 

Why are we doing this?

For the first time, UK companies with over 
250  employees  are  required  to  publicly 
report on their gender pay gap under new 
legislation that was introduced April 2017. 

With 80% of our customers and 78% of our 
colleagues being female, gender balance is 
really important to us and the legislation is 
helping us to look at things differently and 
identify  ways  we  can  work  to  close  our 
gender pay gap.

The  legislation  requires  us  to  report  our 
mean  and  median  pay  gap,  bonus  mean 
and  median  pay  gap,  the  percentage  of 
male and female employees who received a 
bonus  payment  and  the  percentage  of 
males and females in each quartile. 

2

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
What is the difference between equal pay and a 
gender pay gap?

A gender pay gap is different from equal pay. 

Equal pay

Equal pay is paying males and females equally for like work, 
work of equal value and work rated as equivalent. There has 
been legislation outlining equal pay obligations in the UK for 
nearly 50 years.   

Gender pay gap

A  gender  pay  gap  looks  at  the  differences  in  pay  between 
genders across groups of employees irrespective of the work 
they perform.  

=

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

3

One of the main reasons for the gender pay gap in our society is 

that men are statistically more likely to be in senior roles. 

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
How  are  the  median  and  mean 
pay gaps calculated?

Mean pay gap – If we add together all the 
hourly 
rates  of  male  colleagues  and 
calculate the  average  and  do  the same for 
female colleagues, the mean pay gap (as a 
percentage) is the difference in pay between 
the average male and female hourly rate. 

The median is the middle point of a range of 
numbers and the mean is the average of a 
range of numbers. How do we calculate this 
for gender pay gap reporting?

Median pay gap – If all our male colleagues 
stood in a line in order of lowest hourly rate 
earned  to  highest  and  all  females  did  the 
same, the median pay gap (as a percentage) 
is the difference in pay between the middle 
colleague  on  the  male  line  and  the  middle 
colleague on the female line. 

Median pay gap

=

Mean pay gap

Sum of the male rates 

Divided by the number of males

Sum of the female rates 

Divided by the number of females

How 
is 
calculated?

the  bonus 

gap 

The  mean  and  median  bonus  gaps  are 
calculated  in  the  same  way  as  the  gender 
pay  gaps.  However,  this  time  we  use  the 
actual  bonus  paid  to  colleagues.  We  also 
report  the  number  of  male  and  female 
colleagues 
(as  a 
percentage  of  the  total  male  and  female 
population).

receiving  a  bonus 

How  are  the  pay  quartiles 
calculated?

Pay  quartiles  are  calculated  by  dividing  all 
hourly rates paid across the business, from 
lowest  to  highest,  into  four  equal  sized 
groups  of  colleagues  and  calculating  the 
percentage of males and females in each.  

Pay quartiles

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

4

Our 201 7 results 

22%

Percentages of all our
male and female 

colleagues

78%

The percentages of all male and female colleagues within each quartile pay band is:

Pay quartiles

LOWER QUARTILE

2nd QUARTILE

3rd QUARTILE

4th QUARTILE

22%

78%

13%

87%

20% 80%

32% 68%

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

5

Our 201 7 results

Gender pay gap

Median pay gap

Mean pay gap

5%

21%

Median national average pay gap 18.4%, mean national average pay gap 17.4% based on 
estimates from the Office of National Statistics’ Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017

Bonus gap

49%

received bonus

69%

received bonus

Median bonus gap

Mean bonus gap

19%

81%

We believe the main reason for our gender pay gap is the 
structure of our workforce with more females than males in 
our lower paid roles across the organisation. We know that 
the gender pay gap in each of the first three quartiles is less 
than  1%  in  favour  of  females.  Beneath  the  headline 
numbers in quartile 4 there are variations in the proportion 
of males and females in different functional areas eg more 
females in HR, more males in IT.  Along with this, our pay 
ranges differ by function as well as job level. Where there 
are  variations  in  market  rates  of  pay  between  functions, 
this can contribute to the gender pay gap.

Our median pay gap is significantly better than the national 
average  of  18.4%,  however,  we  recognise  that  there  is 
always work to be done to improve.    

All bonuses paid in the year up to 5 April 2017 are used for 
the calculation of the bonus gap. The calculation is based 
on actual bonus paid rather than full-time equivalent and 
we have a high proportion of female colleagues who work 
part-time who received a pro-rated payment.

Not all of our bonus schemes resulted in a payment in the 
reporting  period  which  has  negatively  influenced  our 
bonus gap. All of our bonus schemes are gender neutral by 
design  and  just  under  half  of  all  male  and  just  over  two 
thirds of all female colleagues received a bonus payment in 
this period. 

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

6

What are we doing to address our gender pay gap?

We are committed to encouraging and supporting female colleagues across 

the organisation and inspiring everyone to reach their full potential

WHAT WE’VE DONE SO FAR

WHAT WE WILL BE DOING

• 
Flexible  working  policies:  We  have  had  a  variety  of 
flexible working policies in place for many years. More than 
half of all colleagues work part-time (less than 30 hours per 
week)
•  Pay:  We  have  a  governance  process  for  pay  policy 
decisions to ensure we are fair to all colleagues
•  Maternity pay: We have recently enhanced our maternity 
pay for our colleagues. With the majority of colleagues being 
female, we are committed to having the right offer in place to 
help them balance their home and work life
•  Gender  listening  groups:  We  hold  listening  groups  to 
understand  any  perceived  barriers  colleagues  may  have  as 
well as to inform our thinking to ensure any new policies or 
procedures we introduce will be based on colleague insight  

• 
Flexible working policies: While we already have these 
in place we will focus on encouraging flexible working across 
all roles
•  Unconscious  bias  training:  Unconscious  bias  refers  to 
the  stereotypes,  both  negative  and  positive,  that  exist  in 
people’s  subconscious  and  affect  their  behaviour.  Our 
training  programme  will  support  our  leaders  in  fair  and 
inclusive  decision  making.  This  will  also  form  part  of  our 
leadership training
•  Encouraging  colleagues  of  the  present  and  future  to 
explore non-traditional areas of work: Our pay ranges differ 
by function as well as job level and our data shows that we 
have  gender  split  between  functions.  For  example,  our  HR 
function  is  78%  female  and  our  IT  function  28%  female. 
Variations in market rates between functions contribute to the 
gender pay gap.  To support this, we have a number of STEM 
(science, 
technology,  engineering  and  mathematics) 
schemes  being  trialled  across  our  business  to  encourage 
colleagues into non-traditional roles
•  Encouraging colleagues back to work: we will bring our 
flexible  working  policies  to  life  for  those  on  maternity  and 
adoption  leave  helping  more  colleagues  to  feel  supported 
and able to return to work in a way that’s right for them 

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

7

Our commitment

that  64%  of  our 

As a business, we will continue to build a 
more  diverse  and  inclusive  culture.  We 
are  proud 
female 
colleagues  and  40%  of  our  male 
colleagues work part-time giving them the 
opportunity  they  require  to  balance  their 
home and work lives. 

We  are  committed  to  encouraging  and 
supporting  all  colleagues  across  the 
organisation  and  inspiring  everyone  to 
reach their full potential.  
 

40%

work part-time

64%

work part-time

We confirm that the information contained within this report is accurate.

NATHAN CLEMENTS

HR Director, Boots UK & ROI

JONATHAN WASS

Chief Financial Officer, Boots UK & ROI

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

8

Boots Management Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

