Futures Housing Group
 

Gender Pay Gap 
 
Report 2017
 

www.futureshg.co.uk
 

OUR VISION
 

is to create “Great places. Quality Services.
Inspiring Futures.”
 

As Futures Housing Group employs more than 250 people we are required to publish details
of our gender pay gap for the first time this year based on our 5 April 2017 payroll figures.  
 
 
Futures Housing Group is an innovative business which provides 9,000 affordable homes
throughout the East Midlands. We own a social enterprise, a commercial development
company and co-own a further education provider.
 
 
What is the gender pay gap?
 
 
The gender pay gap is a measure of difference between male and female earnings expressed
as a percentage of male earnings
 
 
UK companies with 250 or more employees have to publish their gender pay gap data by April
2018, under a new legal requirement.
 
 
What is the difference between the gender pay gap and equal pay? 
 
The pay gap isn't the same as equal pay. Equal pay is when a man and women are doing the
same job and therefore should be paid the same.  
 
 
Gender pay is the measure of difference between average hourly earnings for men and
women regardless of the nature of their role.
 
 

Here at Futures Housing Group 
 

What does our data show?
 

51%
 

of our partners
 
are female 
 

49%
 

of our partners
 
are male 
 

Page 2
 

Our mean average
gender pay gap is
 

6.7%
 

The UK average in
2016  *
 

18.1%
 

 *(based on ONS.gov.uk)
 

Hourly rates of pay
 

Mean hourly rate of 
pay for females is 
 
 

Mean hourly rate of 
pay for males is 
 
 

£14.26
 

our Mean gender pay
gap is 
 

Median hourly rate of 
pay for females is 
 
 

£12.39
 

our Median gender
pay gap is 
 

£15.29
 

6.7%
 
Median hourly rate of 
pay for males is 
 
 

£13.89
 

10.8%
 

PAY GAP, MEAN AND MEDIAN
 
This is the difference in hourly pay of male and female as at the 5 April 2017. This is expressed as a percentage of the hourly
pay of male relevant employees. This means that a positive number indicates men earn more than women; a negative
number will mean the reverse.
 

Page 3
 

Pay Bands (quartiles - hourly rate of pay)
 

How many men and women are in each quarter of Futures' payroll
 

Lower Quartile

£5.88 - £10.46
 

Lower Middle Quartile

£10.46 - £12.83
 

Male (47.10%)

Female (52.90%)

Male (44.30%)

Female (55.70%)

Upper Middle Quartile

 £12.83 - £15.87
 

Upper Quartile
£15.77 - £80.99
 

Male (40%)

Female (60%)

Male (64.30%)

Female (35.70%)

QUARTILES 
 
This shows the percentage of men and women calculated from lowest to highest hourly rate of pay, split into four equal
sized groups.
 
 
The  above  graphs  shows  the  split  of  men  and  women  in  terms  of  pay  quartiles.    The  results  are    that  there  is  a  higher
proportion of women in the Lower, Lower Middle and Upper Middle quartiles, however there is a higher percentage of men
in the Upper quartile.
 
 
 

Page 4
 

Bonus Gap
 

Who received bonus pay
 

Percentage of females
who received bonus pay
 

1.4%
 

Mean bonus payments 
for females is 
 
 

£2,848
 

Median bonus payments
for females is 
 

£2,848
 

Percentage of males 
who received bonus pay
 
 

32.8%
 

Mean bonus payments 
for males is 
 
 

£409.64
 

Median bonus payments
for males is 
 

£349.26
 

BONUS PAY GAP, MEAN AND MEDIAN 
 
This refers to the bonus pay paid to male and female relevant employees during the 12 months prior to 5 April 2017,
expressed as a percentage of the bonus pay paid to male relevant employees.
 
 
Bonus pay includes any additional pay relating to productivity or performance.  In our case, the majority of bonus pay is in
the form of the Performance Related Pay (PRP) scheme for our repairs team.  
 
 
We do have other performance related payments that are occasionally made on an individual and specific basis, for
example to secure a temporary employee for the duration of their contract.
 

Page 5
 

What we're doing about the gap
 

Widening Our 
Reach & Impact

 
Futures Housing Group has a proud history of investing in its partners.  Award winning, innovative, passionate and
enthusiastic about our work, we have talented partners to help us deliver our ambitious plans.  We believe that
arrangements for pay and benefits must be fair, open and transparent to ensure we recruit, retain and motivate
talented indivdiuals.
 
 
We are encouraged that our gender pay gap is smaller than the UK average.  However that doesn't make us
complacent and we are committed to addressing the gap that exists in our organisation.  We want to encourage
more inclusive opportunities to help our partners reach their potential and to attract new partners into our Group.   
The key factor behind the Group's gender pay gap is the balance of men and women across specific functions.  For
 
example, our repairs team is currently all male and are currently the only recipients of a performance related
bonus.  
 
 
As a Group we meet all national pay standards and provide all our permanent team members with a salary at least
in line with the UK Living Wage.  We continue to benchmark our salaries against the UK Housing Sector every three
years and are governed by a remuneration committee who set pay levels, terms, conditions and benefits at all levels.
 
 
In 2018 we are reviewing our salary structure and benefits to ensure they are both consistent and competitive.  
 
 
We will also review our current arrangements for performance related pay, bonuses and other allowances to
ensure they are fairly and transparently applied.
 
 
We consider ourselves to be inclusive and encourage flexibility at work, including part time work time.  In 2018 we
will be implementing our agile working approach across the Group.  This will encourage more flexibility in how we
work and will help us open up opportunities for existing and future partners. 
Our  goal  to  eradicate  the  kerosene
 
 
lamp from Africa by 2020 is the first,
We don't want to focus on purely reducing our gender pay gap figures as this will not help us achieve our aim of an
and  very  achievable,  step  on  this
inclusive, transparent and open approach.  We want to work with our partners to help understand these findings
and explore solutions to offer equal opportunities for all and to achieve our aims.
journey. In 2015, we are launching a
 
 
global  campaign  seeking  $20million
 
needed to make this a reality.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I confirm the data reported is accurate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lindsey Williams 
Chief Executive 
 
 
 

Eradicating the  
Kerosene Lamp

Get in touch with us
 

Futures Housing Group 
Asher House, Asher Lane 
 

Business Park, 
 

Ripley, Derbyshire
 

DE5 3SW
 

enquiries@futureshg.co.uk
 

@futures_hg
 

Page 6
 

