Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

Introduction

PMP Recruitment Limited is one of the largest high volume provider of flexible 
/ contingent workforce solutions, predominantly to clients within the 
distribution, logistics, warehousing and food processing sectors.  The gender 
pay gap data analysed and covered within this report also contains data 
relating to a large number of central support staff that support both PMP 
Recruitment and other brands across the Cordant Group who are paid via 
PMP Recruitment Limited. 
We welcome the opportunity to publish our gender pay gap report, which has 
been taken from the pay details of the 15,878 colleagues we paid in the pay 
period within which the 5th April 2017 fell (referred to under the relevant 
regulations as the “snapshot date”), of which 30.8% were female, and 69.2% 
were male.  In the interests of transparency, our report also provides a 
separate gender pay gap analysis for our 247 salaried colleagues as over 98% 
of the staff we paid in the relevant pay period were temporary colleagues 
whose pay rates are set by the clients they work for. 
We have a greater proportion of male colleagues as as the data set includes 
the pay data for 15,631 of our temporary colleagues, who predominantly work 
within the blue collar sector where pay rates are typically at or towards the 
national minimum / living wage, and male workers are more prevalent.  As the 
pay rates paid to our temporary colleagues are set by our clients,  effecting 
change in our future gender pay gap data much more challenging.
Notwithstanding this, as part of our transition to becoming a social enterprise 
we are developing a good job strategy which will focus on how we can create 
and maximise a positive social impact.  As we develop these strategies and 
integrate them into our future business plans, we will also take into account 
our gender pay gap data, ensuring diversity and inclusion remains a key focus 
area for the future. 
I confirm the information and data reported within this report and submitted 
via the Government Equalities Office gender pay gap reporting service is 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Ken Steers
Group Human Resources Director

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

Understanding our gender pay gap report

How is the gender pay gap measured?
There are four key measures:

● Mean hourly pay and bonus pay gap
● Median hourly pay and bonus pay gap
●

Proportion of males / females that received a bonus in the 12 month 
period ending on the snapshot date
Proportion of males / females in each quartile pay band

●

How is the mean hourly pay gap calculated?
The mean pay gap is expressed as a percentage and shows the difference in 
the average hourly rate of pay between male and female colleagues.  This is 
calculated by adding up the hourly rates of pay for all females, and dividing 
this by the number of females, and doing the same calculation for men. The 
percentage is then calculated by taking the average hourly rate for females 
from the average hourly rate for males, and multiplying the result by 100.

How is the median hourly pay gap calculated?
Firstly, you rank all female employees in order of their hourly pay rate (highest 
to lowest). You then find the hourly rate of pay belonging to the female that is 
in the middle of the list. If there is an odd number of female colleagues in the 
list the middle person will be easy to find e.g. if 105 females then use the 
hourly pay rate for the female ranked at number 53. If there is an even 
number of female colleagues, then you find the middle two and calculate the 
average hourly rate of the two e.g. if 110 employees, you calculate the average 
hourly rate of pay for the female colleagues ranked 55 and 56 in the list. 

The same calculation is undertaken for male colleagues, with the median 
hourly pay gap expressed as a percentage by taking the median hourly pay 
rate for females from the median hourly pay rate for males and multiplying by 
100.

How is the mean and median bonus pay gap calculated?
The same as the mean and median hourly pay gaps (see above), but instead 
looking at the differences in the mean and median values in relation to the 
amount  of bonus paid in the 12 month period ending on the snapshot date to 
male and female colleagues. 

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

Understanding our gender pay gap report

What do the percentage pay gaps actually mean?

They effectively show how much more male colleagues earn in comparison to 
females in relation to average hourly rates of pay and average annual bonus 
payments, or vice versa. 

If the percentage gap is a positive number it means, on average,  our male 
colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of bonus payments than 
females. If the percentage gap is shown as a negative number, it means, on 
average, our female colleagues have a higher rate of pay and / or level of 
bonus pay than their male colleagues.

Important Note

The gender pay gaps  look at comparing the pay data for all male and female 
colleagues regardless of their job role, so is not the same and should not be 
considered to show that an employer is breaching equal pay rights, which 
focus on ensuring male and female colleagues receive the same rate of pay for 
doing the same or broadly similar job role.

What are the quartile pay bands?
This is calculated by ranking all colleagues, regardless of their gender, from 
the colleague(s) with the highest hourly pay rate in the organisation to the 
colleague(s) with the lowest hourly pay rate.  

This list is then divided into four quarters, with as equal number of employees 
in each quartile as possible. 

The report then shows the proportion of males and females in each of the 
following pay quartiles:

● Upper 
● Upper middle
●
Lower middle
●
Lower  

Want to know more about gender pay gap reports?
If you would like to know more about gender pay gap reporting please visit 
www.acas.org.uk/genderpay

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

Our results for 2017

The first table shows the mean and 
median hourly pay and bonus pay 
gap for all staff paid in the relevant 
pay period, which includes 15,631 
(c.98%) hourly paid temporary 
colleagues, of which c.31% are 
female and 69% male, whose pay 
rates are set by the clients they work 
for. The median pay gap is 0.1% as 
there were a large number of 
temporary colleagues, both male on 
the same hourly pay rates.  
The second table shows that male 
staff are more likely to be paid a 
bonus than males, however this is 
because males make up a greater 
proportion of our temporary 
workforce who are less likely to earn 
bonus. 

Measure (Salaried staff)

% Gap

Mean hourly pay gap

Median hourly pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

25.7%

10.7%

24.3%

34.9%

Measure (All staff)

Mean hourly pay gap

Median hourly pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

% Gap

+1.9%

+0.1%

- 40.3%

-32.4%

As the data above is affected by the 
large volume of our temporary 
colleagues, two further tables have 
been provided which show the 
same data analysis as above, but 
using only the data for our 247 
salaried staff.   
Whilst women are proportionately 
well represented within the upper 
two pay quartiles, men are more 
likely to earn bonus, and typically 
receive a larger level of bonus pay 
across the year which is the main 
contributor to the gender pay gaps 
amongst our salaried colleagues. 

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

Our results for 2017

The charts below show the percentage of male and female colleagues that are contained 
within each pay quartile band.  There are two sets of charts, one for all staff (as required 
by the regulations), and the other for our salaried for our salaried colleagues only.
Almost all salaried staff sit within the upper two pay quartiles, with females representing 
54% of the salaried staff population and therefore showing females as having a greater 
representation within these quartiles, albeit overall salaried male staff achieve a higher 
average rate of pay and bonus pay as more are employed in middle and senior 
management roles.
           Pay Quartile Bands - All Staff                             Pay Quartile Bands - Salaried Staff

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

PMP Recruitment  |  1 Hazelwood Road  |  Northampton  |  NN1 1LG  |  UK 

Tel: 01604 887200  |  www.pmprecruitment.co.uk

People - Progression - Productivity - Promotion - Performance

