Gender pay  
gap report 

A

National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. ©NSPCC 2017. Registered charity England and Wales 216401.  

Scotland SC037717. J20171363. The adults pictured are volunteers. Photography by Tom Hull. 

Contents 

Foreword…………………………………………………………………………………………………2

Gender pay gap vs equal pay……………………………………………………………..3

NSPCC gender pay gap data……………………………………………………………..4

Understanding our figures…………………………………………………………………7

Actions……………………………………………………………………………………………………8

1

Foreword

Together we can help children who’ve been abused  
to rebuild their lives. Together we can protect children 
at risk and, together, we can find the best ways  
of preventing child abuse from ever happening. 

We change the law. We visit schools across the country, helping children 
understand what abuse is. And, through our Childline service, we give 
young people a voice when no one else will listen. 

All of this is only possible thanks to our supporters, volunteers and staff. 

As part of our commitment to ensure diversity and inclusion in our 
services and in our workforce, we have signed up to work with the 
Employer Network for Equality and Inclusion (ENEI). Our aim is to review 
our working practices and further the work we have already been doing  
in employee diversity and inclusion through the Equality Champions  
and the Equality and Diversity subgroups.

Gender equality is just one part of this, but we welcome the insight that 
has been provided by the gender pay gap reporting regulations. It has 
helped to give us a good picture of where we are now, and think about 
ways we can improve.

At the NSPCC, the nature of the work we do attracts a high number  
of female employees and our gender split is roughly 80 per cent female 
and 20 per cent male. Women are well represented across all levels of  
the organisation, with half of our eight-person executive board being 
women we compare favorably to the national average of 26% female 
board membership. 

Our gender pay gap is 9.2% (median). This is considerably less than the 
national median published by the Office of National Statistics of 18.4% 
(ASHE, Oct 2017). While we are confident in the policies and procedures 
we already operate to support diversity and inclusion on a gender basis, we 
are still committed to do more and will strive to reduce our gender pay gap.

Further analysis on what may be creating this gap is detailed in this 
report, along with the first steps we intend to take in order to work 
towards reducing the gap even further. 
 
 
 

Peter Wanless 
Chief Executive, NSPCC

2

Gender pay gap vs equal pay

Although equal pay and the gender 
pay gap look at differences between 
women’s and men’s pay, they are two 
different issues and this needs to be 
remembered when reading this report.

Equal pay is the right for men and women to be paid 
the same when doing the same or equivalent work. 
This is a legal requirement. 

Gender pay gap is a measure of the difference 
between men’s and women’s average earnings across 
an organisation. All roles across the organisation are 
included in calculating the average earnings figure  
and it is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings.

This report is about our gender pay gap

Having a gender pay gap does not automatically mean 
that there is an equal pay issue within an organisation. 
There are a number of reasons for a gender pay gap, 
for example, a gender imbalance in the different levels 
of roles or if particular types of role are dominated 
by a single sex. The NSPCC is an equal pay employer, 
having regard to equal pay legislation and adhering  
to an equal pay practice

3

NSPCC gender pay gap data

New regulations were introduced in  
2017 which mean that employers  
are required to report on a number  
of different statistical measures of 
gender pay on the snapshot date  
of 5th April each year for non-public 
sector employers with more than 250 
employees. We welcome these changes 
and have included the measures in this 
report along with other information 
which we hope will be helpful.

A guide to the figures 
Mean 

The average of a set of numbers. All numbers are 
added together and divided by the number of  
numbers put into the calculation.

For example, taking 5, 8, 12, 26, and 40, the sum  
of the numbers is 91. Dividing this by five (the  
number of figures) gives you a mean of 18.2.

The regulations require us to report the difference 
between the mean hourly rate of men compared  
to the mean hourly rate of women, expressed as  
a percentage of the men’s figure.

Median 

The middle value of a list of numbers. If the list has an 
odd number of entries, the median is the middle entry 
after sorting the list into increasing order. If the list 
has an even number of entries, the median is halfway 
between the two middle numbers after sorting.

For example, taking 5, 8, 12, 26, and 40, the median 
value is 12.

The regulations require us to report the difference 
between the median hourly rate for men compared  
to the median hourly rate for women, expressed as  
a percentage of the men’s figure.

4

Pay quartiles 

Rates of pay are placed into a list in order of value  
and the list is divided into four equal sections 
(quartiles). Each quartile will contain the same  
number of individuals.

The regulations require us to report how many  
men and how many women are in each pay quartile, 
expressed as a percentage within each quartile.

Bonus 

The regulations also require us to publish the same 
measures as above on bonus payments, but as  
the NSPCC does not make any bonus payments  
our figures will be zero in this category.

The figures

Mean and Median hourly rates

£20.78

£19.07

£17.72

This gives us a mean gender pay gap of 14.7%

£17.31

This gives us a median gender pay gap of 9.2%

Pay quartiles

This shows the gender split within each pay quartile

NSPCC OVERALL

19.6%

Upper Quartile

28.2%

Upper MID Quartile

21.3%

Lower MID Quartile

16.3%

Lower Quartile

12.6%

80.4%

71.8%

78.7%

83.7%

87.4%

Males

Females

5

In addition to looking at the distribution within pay quartiles,  
we also looked at how our male and female populations were  
distributed across the pay quartiles:

Female distribution across quartiles

Male distribution across quartiles

26.14%

22.29%

27.19%

35.96%

24.43%

27.14%

20.47%

16.37%

Lower Quartile

Lower Mid Quartile

Upper Mid Quartile

Upper Quartile

6

Understanding our figures 

80 percent of our staff are female, which is roughly  
in line with the sector-wide average of 77.9% (ONS 
Employment by Industry report, April-Sept 2017). 
Where organisations are predominantly one gender 
or the other, gender pay gaps can easily arise and 
relatively small changes in the balance of genders  
can have a significant impact.

From the data on how our women and men are 
distributed across the pay quartiles you can see that 
women are quite evenly spread across the quartiles, 
however men are more highly represented in the  
upper two quartiles and only 16.37% of men sit in  
the lower pay quartile. This distribution is what causes 
the median hourly rate to be higher for males. 

The graph below shows how the genders are split 
across our directorates, and the number of full  
pay relevant employees used for the calculations 
within each directorate;

National services (650)

Children’s services (600)

FundraIsing (178)

Communications (137)

Corporate services (98)

Strategy, Policy and evidence (46)

HR (33)

If we look a little deeper we can see that most of our 
frontline roles working with children are predominantly 
done by women and market rates for this kind of role 
tends to be in the lower quartiles (84% of our frontline 
services employees are women). This group of staff 
make up just over 70% of our employees and therefore 
has a big influence on our overall figures.

7

% Males

% Females

Actions

There are a number of things that need 
to change in order to reduce or eradicate 
the gender pay gap in the UK, which are 
outside the control of employers. These 
will involve long-term plans to address 
cultural biases – starting in early 
education with gender biases towards 
certain professions and roles in society. 
However, the NSPCC is committed  
to ensuring we are doing what we  
can to address our Gender Pay Gap.

The Equality and Human Rights Commission  
has identified ways in which employers may seek  
to address pay gaps. Having reviewed these,  
we have developed the following action points:

•  Encourage applicants from genders not typical  
to the role, such as more men into social worker 
roles and more women into IT. 
 
We will review our recruitment materials, sources  
and practices to reduce any gender bias within  
the recruitment process.

•  Ensure flexible working practices we already 
have in place are applied fairly across all levels 
of roles, subject to fulfilling the organisation’s 
needs. Generally speaking the majority of people 
requesting flexible working are women with  
caring responsibilities. 
 

We will look at how our flexible working practices 
operate across the organisation and address  
any barriers that are identified.

•  Review policies and practices that support 
childcare or other caring responsibilities to ensure 
equal support is available to men and women to 
undertake them. 
 
We will keep our family-friendly polices under regular 
review and ensure that men are not overlooked as 
potential carers outside of the workplace.

•  Unlock the potential opportunities to upskill or 
retrain available through apprenticeships – both 
with internal applicants and recruitment into 
apprentice roles. 
 
Whilst this is a new initiative and is still being 
developed, we hope this will also support internal 
promotions and open up more opportunities in  
the lower quartiles.

•  Review working practices in our lowest paid jobs.  
 
Addressing the gender pay gap is about creating 
balance at both ends of the pay distribution and we 
have a low percentage of male workers in the lower 
quartile. We will investigate if there are any factors 
that are preventing men entering these roles – such 
as high levels of part time roles which tend to attract 
more female workers – and consider if we can break 
down any barriers.

8

