 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Merseytravel 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017-2018 
 
 
 

Keeping the Liverpool City Region Moving 
 

 

   

 

 

 

 
Contents 
 
 
Background 
 
 
1.  Merseytravel – who we are and what we do 

 

2.  Gender Pay Gap Analysis 
 
3.  What does this mean? 
 
4.  Merseytravel’s Action Plan 
 

 

 

 
Background 
 
The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 came into 
force on 6th April 2017.  Under these Regulations, any organisation that has 250 or 
more employees must publish and report specific figures about their gender pay gap. 
 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and 
women, expressed relative to men’s earnings. It is different to equal pay which is 
concerned with pay differences between men and women who carry out the same 
jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value.  Paying men and women differently for 
carrying out the same or similar work is unlawful. 
 
As a public sector body, Merseytravel is also covered by the Equality Act 2010 
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 which came into force on 
31 March 2017.  This requires Merseytravel to publish and report gender pay gap 
data following the public sector rules, i.e. the figures must be calculated using a 
specific reference date - this is called the ‘snapshot date’. The snapshot date each 
year is 31 March for public sector organisations. 
 
Merseytravel is required to publish the following four types of figures on our own 
website and on a government website: 
 

  Gender pay gap (mean and median averages) 
  Gender bonus gap (mean and median averages) 
  Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 
  Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s pay 

structure 

 
The purpose of this report is for Merseytravel to meet its statutory obligations in 
respect of reporting of gender pay gap information.  The data and analysis will be 
used to inform further investigation and, where appropriate, identify actions that 
Merseytravel will take to address any arising gender pay gap.  Merseytravel is fully 
committed to ensuring that employees are paid fairly for the work they undertake, 
irrespective of their gender. 
 
 

 

 
1.  Merseytravel – who we are and what we do 
 
 
Merseytravel is the Executive body that provides professional, strategic and 
operational transport advice to the Liverpool City Region Combined Authority to 
enable it to make informed decisions. It is also the delivery arm, making transport 
happen. 
 
Merseytravel oversees the public transport network and is responsible for 
coordinating bus and rail services, maintaining transport infrastructure, providing 
public transport information and operating the Mersey road tunnels, the Mersey 
Ferries and their associated visitor attractions.  
 
Merseytravel works in partnership with central, regional and local government, the 
Local Enterprise Partnership, public transport operators, other Passenger Transport 
Executives, the business community, community groups and members of the public. 
 
Merseytravel currently employs 746 employees across a number of sites within the 
Merseyside area.  This includes office-based employees at Mann Island in Liverpool 
City Centre, Mersey Ferries terminals, Mersey Tunnels and bus stations containing 
travel centres, with other employees working out on the transport network. 
 
Due to the diverse nature of our operations, Merseytravel has a wide range of job 
posts including Professional, Technical, Administration and Operational roles. 
 

 

 
2.  Gender Pay Gap Analysis 
 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the mean or median hourly rate of pay 
for male and female employees. 
 
This section sets out Merseytravel’s position in respect of: 
 

 

  Gender pay gap (mean and median averages) 
  Gender bonus gap (mean and median averages) 
  Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 
  Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the pay structure 

 
Organisation Composition 
 

Male – 63.5% 

Female – 36.5% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
Mean Pay Gap 
 

14.61% gap 

This means that, on average, 
male Merseytravel employees 
are paid 14.61% higher than 
female Merseytravel employees. 

13.22% gap 

This is slightly higher than the 
public sector gender pay gap 
which is 13.1% (which is the 
highest gender pay gap in the 
public sector since 1999) 

 

Median Pay Gap 
 

 

 

 

 
 
Bonus Pay Gap 
 
Merseytravel does not pay bonus payments. 
 
 

 
Proportion of male and female employees in each pay quartile 
The chart below shows the proportion of male and female full time equivalent 
employees in four pay bands. 
 
To calculate these figures, we: 

ranked our full time equivalent employees from highest to lowest paid 

 
  divided this into 4 equal parts (‘quartiles’) 
  worked out the percentage of men and women in each of the 4 parts 

 

 

Quartiles 

138 

129 

45 

55 

115 

69 

89 

94 

Q4

Q3

Q2

Q1

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

 

(A) Male

(B) Female

 

Lower Quartile 
 

 
Upper Quartile 
 

Male – 48.6% 

Female – 51.2% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Male – 75.4% 

Female – 24.6% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The  figures  show  that  the  split  within  the  lower  pay  quartile  is  fairly  even  however 
this is not the case in the upper quartile where three quarters are male and only one 
quarter female. 
 
 

 

 

 
What does this mean? 
 
It is important to reinforce that gender pay gap and equal pay are different things.  All 
pay  within  Merseytravel  is  determined  through  a  job  evaluation  scheme  which 
evaluates  the  appropriate  level  of  pay  based  upon  the  factors  within  the  job.    Our 
approach  to  pay  is  therefore  gender  neutral,  ensuring  that  men  and  women  in 
equivalent roles receive the same pay.   
 
Merseytravel is therefore confident that our gender pay gap is not due to paying men 
and  women differently for  the  same  or  equivalent  work,  rather  it  is  the  result of the 
roles in which men and women work within Merseytravel and the salaries that these 
roles attract.  
 
Just over two thirds of Merseytravel’s employees are male. It is therefore evident that 
there is an under-representation of female employees in the Organisation.  This is a 
common issue amongst Passenger Transport Executives.  It would appear that local 
transport  as  a  career  choice  is  not  as  attractive  to  women  as  it  is  to  men.    This  is 
also  true  within  the  wider  transport  sector,  including  the  Department  for  Transport 
whose  mean  pay  gap  figure  is  higher  than  that  for  Merseytravel  (16.9%  compared 
with 14.61%).  
 
Our data also shows that the proportion of females decreases through the higher pay 
quartiles  and  is  at  its  most  significant  in  the  uppermost  quartile.    It  is  therefore 
evident that the under-representation of women in those higher paid roles is the main 
reason behind our gender pay gap.  
 
The calculation for average pay for the purposes of Gender Pay Reporting includes 
allowances such as shift pay, weekend enhancement and night rate.  In some cases, 
the  rate  of  pay  does  not  necessarily  reflect  the  levels  of  seniority  within  the 
Organisation.  A non-managerial level employee may earn more than a manager due 
to the allowances the role attracts.  There is a higher proportion of male employees 
who  work  shifts,  nights  and  weekends  than  women.    The  exception  to  this  is  in 
Customer  Service  type  roles  which  attract  a  lower  rate  of  shift  pay  as  they  work 
alternating rather than rotating shifts.  Significantly less women than men work night 
shifts. 
 
 

 

 

 
Merseytravel’s Action Plan 
 
At the same time as being a public sector body, Merseytravel’s public profile is as a 
transport industry which is historically male-dominated.  Addressing the gender pay 
gap  will  therefore  require  a  long  term,  focussed  plan  which  will  involve  working 
collaboratively  with  partners  both 
the  Liverpool  City  Region  and  other 
organisations in the transport sector. 
 
On the Right Track 
 
Merseytravel  already  undertakes  a  great  deal  of  work  to  ensure  the  promotion  and 
importance of equality in employment practices.  This work was reinforced following 
the introduction of the Public Sector Equality Duty. 
 
The  actions  Merseytravel  currently  takes  to  ensure  gender  equality  in  employment 
include: 
 

in 

  All  people  policies  are  designed  to  promote  equality  and  are  screened  to 

ensure that any equality implications are identified and addressed; 

  Recruitment  advertisements  and  role  descriptions  are  reviewed  to  ensure 

they do not contain gender bias; 

  Personal  information  is  recorded  separately  on  the  application  form  and  is 
not  provided  to  the  shortlisting  manager.    This  means  that  candidates  are 
shortlisted purely on the basis of their qualifications, skills and experience; 

  Selection methods are reviewed to ensure that there are no equality issues; 
  Flexible working is available to all employees which also assists with female 
employees  returning  to  work  after  maternity  leave  and  this  has  been  taken 
up by a significant proportion of returners. 

  Career breaks are available to employees and are often taken up by female 

employees wishing to extend their time off following maternity leave 

  A  job  evaluation  scheme  which  sets  salary  levels  objectively  and  ensures 

that we pay equally for work of equal value. 

 
Continuing the Journey 
 
Merseytravel is fully committed to working to address the gender pay gap.  The first 
step will be to undertake further detailed analysis to identify the root of the problem.  
Only then can we begin to truly tackle the gender pay gap in a way that is meaningful 
and sustainable. 
 
Merseytravel’s Action Plan for 2017/18 involves the following principal themes: 
 
1.  Data Analysis 
 
The  analysis  undertaken  to  prepare  this  report  is  only  the  starting  point.    It  has 
thrown  a  useful  spotlight  onto  areas  that  require  further  investigation.    Further  data 
will be produced and analysed in the following areas: 
 

  Gender  split  in  senior  positions  –  the  analysis  of  pay  shows  that  there  is  a 
significant  difference  in  the  percentage  of  males  and  females  in  the  upper 

 

 
pay quartile.  As this will be due, in part, to enhancements such as shift and 
night  pay,  we  need  to  identify  an  accurate  position  in  relation  to females  in 
senior roles based on salary grade. 

  Is  there  occupational  segregation?    Further  analysis  will  be  undertaken  to 
determine  which  areas  of  the  business  are  predominantly  male/female  and 
the types of jobs they undertake. 

 
2.  Recruitment and Selection 

 

Linked to the data analysis section above and on the basis that two thirds of 
Merseytravel employees are male, we will investigate: 
 

  Whether or not we are attracting female candidates. 
  Are we attracting female candidates for certain jobs and not others? 
  Do female candidates apply for senior positions?   
  Are we attracting female candidates but they are not making it through the 
selection process?  If so, is there any pattern to the stage at which female 
candidates are not taken any further in the process?  

We will also investigate whether Merseytravel’s Apprenticeship programme can be 
utilised as a tool to address the gender imbalance in the Organisation, particularly if 
data analysis shows that there is occupational segregation. 

 

3.  Training and Education 

 Merseytravel is investing in an e-learning package which we can utilise to roll 
out training programmes across the Organisation, including Equality and 
Diversity training.  We will also investigate developing a training programme 
specifically for those in supervisory and managerial positions to support 
managers to better understand the positive impact of ‘difference’ within teams, 
with a focus on removing unconscious bias. 
 We have previously run programmes such as Springboard, to develop women 
into senior roles and such interventions will be investigated for the future. 
 We will investigate ways to support and progress our most talented women so 
that they are able to compete successfully for our most senior roles including 
those which may be regarded as non-traditional. 
 Where appropriate we will celebrate and highlight the achievements of women 
from within the organisation and use their positive inputs as inspiration for 
others. 
 

4.  Working with Partners 
 
Merseytravel  is  a  member  of  the  Urban  Transport  Group  (UTG)  which  is  a 
professional network on urban transport issues, including people and skills.  Through 
this  group,  which  includes  TfL,  we  will  investigate  national  initiatives  that  promote 
skills and diversity.  Possible avenues to explore include:    
 

 Consulting  the  CIHT  Routes  to  Diversity  and  Inclusion  toolkit  which  was 
designed specifically for the transport sector. It provides tips and case studies 
to help employers to recruit, retain and develop a more diverse workforce; 

 

 

 Linking into the TfL “Women in Transport” programme; 
 Investigating  STEMNET  which  connects  employers  with  young  people  and 
educators in order to promote the study of STEM subjects and work towards 
addressing  the  STEM  skills  shortage.  This  is  funded  by  the  Department  for 
Business, Innovation and Skills; 
 Investigate other schemes and resources for best practice ideas on attracting 
girls and women into careers in STEM subjects, e.g. WISE and TeenTech. 

