HFW GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT: 2016/17 
OUR WORK 
ENVIRONMENT AND 
COMMITMENT TO 
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION

We are committed to creating a diverse 
and inclusive working environment in 
which people of all backgrounds and 
experiences can reach their full potential. 
We strive to be one of the best employers 
of talent, regardless of gender, gender 
identity, ethnicity, race, marital status, 
disability, religious belief, sexual 
orientation, age or caring responsibilities.
We have therefore chosen to report significantly more 
detailed gender pay data than is required – including data 
on our partners, who are all self-employed – in order to 
provide a full and frank assessment of our performance.

MARCH 2018HFW GENDER PAY GAP REPORT: 2016/17“There is no difference in average hourly pay 
between male and female fee-earners at HFW, 
while there is just a 0.1% difference in the number 
of our male and female colleagues who received a 
bonus.”

The headline statistic is there is no 
difference in average hourly pay 
between male and female fee-
earners at HFW, while there is just a 
0.1% difference in the number of our 
male and female colleagues who 
received a bonus.

If we look just at our associates, 
rather than all of our fee-earners, our 
female associates actually get paid 
5.3% more on average than our male 
associates. This is partly down to the 
number of long-serving female senior 
associates at the firm. We know that 
we need to do more in ensuring that 
our most talented female lawyers 
have access to partnership.

Increasing the representation of 
women within law firm partnerships 
has been a long running issue for the 
entire legal industry. It is one that we 
are determined to tackle.

And we are making progress. In 2015, 
we set an ambitious target of having 
30% female fixed-share partners by 
2020. That year, just 12% of our fixed-
share partners were women. Today, 
that figure stands at 25%.

More than 40% of the firm’s internal 
partner and senior associate 
promotions over the last two 
years were women, and women 
account for 46% of those on our 
associate leadership programme, 

our development initiative for those 
focussed on securing a more senior 
role within our firm. We remain 
committed to achieving our 30% 
target by 2020.

Women also account for 50% of our 
new Legal Director roles, which were 
introduced in 2017 to offer lawyers an 
alternative career path to partnership, 
and we have a specialist coaching 
programme to help women return to 
work after maternity leave.

But we acknowledge that we have 
much more work to do. In light of the 
results of this report, we will continue 
to review our approach to gender 
equality in order to identify further 
actions that will help bring about 
meaningful change.

Marcus Bowman, Managing Partner:

“We take our commitments to 
diversity and inclusion very seriously, 
so we are very pleased that our report 
confirms that there is no difference in 
average pay or access to a bonus for 
male and female fee-earners at the 
firm. But we also acknowledge that 
the results show that we need to work 
harder to ensure gender diversity 
across all of our roles, particularly at 
the most senior levels of the firm. This 
is a serious challenge facing the entire 
legal industry and one that we are 
determined to overcome.”

Charlie Keeling, Director of Human 
Resources:

“We have chosen to publish 
significantly more data than the law 
requires, and to provide context to 
our data – even if it’s negative – in 
order to be as open and transparent 
as possible. We are pleased that 
our dedication to fairness in all 
promotion, salary changes and bonus 
payments is reflected in our data, 
which presents a positive picture 
when compared to the legal sector 
generally, although we recognise that 
we must continue to improve as we 
strive for greater equality.”

Kathryn Hull, Corporate Responsibility 
Manager:

“Gender equality is one of the key 
parts of HFW’s global diversity and 
inclusion strategy. We are pleased 
to have made progress towards our 
30% female partner target, and to 
have raised awareness of the need for 
greater diversity within the firm and 
the impact of bias. However, we have 
a lot more work to do and need to 
continue to explore ways to challenge 
gender stereotypes and create a fully 
inclusive working culture in order to 
effect greater change.”

Gender Pay & Bonus Data
The following data shows the 
difference in average hourly pay 
and average bonus pay of male and 
female employees during the 12 
months to 5 April 2017.

The “mean” is the “average”. In this 
case, it was calculated by adding up 
all of the individual pay and bonuses, 

and dividing that total by the number 
of employees. The “median” is the 
“middle” value if all individual hourly 
or bonus pay data was listed in 
numerical order.

Each set of data is followed by a brief 
explanation. For more context, see 
the introductory overview (“Our Work 
Environment and Commitment to 
Diversity & Inclusion”).

A positive figure indicates that men 
are paid more on average than 
women. A negative figure indicates 
that women are paid more on 
average than men. The higher the 
figure, the greater the difference.

We confirm that the following data is 
accurate.

All staff:

Hourly Pay

Bonus

Mean
17.4%

41.1%

Median
30.9%

54.1%

This shows that our male employees are paid 17.4% more on average than our female employees. (This data excludes 
partners, who are self-employed and do not receive a salary. Partner data is provided later in this report.)

These figures are heavily distorted by a significant gender imbalance across our Secretarial Services and Business 
Services teams. Women account for 95% of our Secretarial Services roles and 73% of the most junior roles in Business 
Services, and only 41% of associates.

The bonus data is also skewed by the fact that women account for 95% of part-time roles at the firm, with those 
individuals working an average of 3.5 days per week.

Proportion of colleagues who receive a bonus:

Female

Male

Pay quartiles:

Proportion
92.4%

92.5%

This shows that there was just a 0.1% 
difference in the number of our male 
and female colleagues who received 
a bonus in 2016. We are confident 
that men and women have an equal 
opportunity to participate in and earn 
a bonus at HFW.

Lower Quartile

Female

Male

73.8%

26.6%

Lower Middle 
Quartile
57.6%

42.4%

Upper Middle 
Quartile
44.7%

55.3%

Upper Quartile

41.2%

58.8%

This chart illustrates the pay distribution by gender across the firm in four equally sized quartiles.

As previously explained, there are a number of factors behind the significant gender imbalance within our lower pay 
quartile, particularly the high number of women in Secretarial Services, junior Business Services and part-time roles.

The differences across the other quartiles reflect the fact that the firm has more men than women across all levels of 
fee-earner (see “Gender breakdown by grade”, below), and in the most senior Business Services roles.

Gender breakdown by grade:

Total

47%

53%

Partners 
(fixed-share 
and equity)

11%

89%

Associates 
(including 
Senior 
Associates)
41%

59%

Female

Male

Trainees

Business 
Services

Secretarial 
Services

42%

58%

51%

49%

95%

5%

This shows that there are more men than women across all levels of fee-earning at the firm, which further distorts our 
all-staff pay gap data.

It also shows that there is a significant under-representation of women among our partnership. This is something that 
we are determined to change.

Additional information:

The firm is not required to publish the following data, but we have chosen to publish it in the interests of transparency.

Hourly pay gap:

Fee-earners

Associates

Partners

Mean
0.0%

-5.3%

8.7%

Median
2.5%

-6.8%

28.2%

This shows that there is no difference in average hourly pay for our male and female fee-earners. This includes 
associates, paralegals, senior managers, trainees and legal executives.

It also shows that our female associates are paid 5.3% more on average than our male associates. This is partly because 
we have a high number of long-serving female senior associates, which suggests that we need to do better in ensuring 
that our most talented female lawyers have access to partnership.

Finally, it shows that our male partners are paid 8.7% more on average than our female partners. This is because 
we have a greater proportion of male equity partners than female equity partners. We need to improve female 
representation at the highest level of the firm.

About HFW
HFW is a leading global law firm 
in the aerospace, commodities, 
construction, energy, insurance 
and shipping sectors. The firm has 
almost 600 fee-earners, including 180 
partners, based in 18 offices across 
the Americas, Europe, the Middle 
East, Asia and Australia.
We take a progressive approach to 
our roles in commercial business – 
thinking creatively and pragmatically 
to support our clients.

HFW prides itself on its deep industry 
expertise and its entrepreneurial, 
creative and collaborative culture.
It is our policy to:
 ● Treat all with whom we interact, 

internally or externally, with dignity, 
courtesy, respect and fairness

 ● Encourage talented individuals 

from diverse backgrounds to 
flourish and develop their careers 
in an environment of mutual 
support

 ● Promote equal opportunity in 
all areas of employment and 
prohibit discrimination against, 
or harassment of, members of 
the firm, prospective employees 
and those with whom the firm 
engages

 ● Regularly monitor the 

effectiveness of our diversity policy 
and take proactive measures to 
advance it

To find out more about our 
commitment to diversity and 
inclusion, or to read our global 
diversity statement, click here:  
http://www.hfw.com/Diversity

hfw.com
© 2018 Holman Fenwick Willan LLP. All rights reserved.
Whilst every care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of this information at the time of publication, the information is intended as guidance only. It should not be  
considered as legal advice. Holman Fenwick Willan LLP is the Data Controller for any data that it holds about you. To correct your personal details or change your mailing 
preferences please contact Souhir Jemai on +44 (0)20 7264 8415 or email souhir.jemai@hfw.com

Beirut   Brussels   Dubai   Geneva   Hong Kong   Houston   Jakarta   Kuwait   London   Melbourne   Paris   Perth   Piraeus   Riyadh   São Paulo   Shanghai   Singapore   Sydney

