 
 

General Manager Statement On Results 
 

 
 
 
We are pleased with the results from Jumeriah Carlton Tower’s Gender Pay Gap Report, with most of the key metrics 
being better than the averages across our industry sector. Our culture is founded on the premise of equality and the 
results  indicate  that  our  Human  Resources  strategies  are  focussed  to  achieve  fairness  across  our  business,  from 
recruitment to career development and remuneration. However, we do recognise that we have an opportunity to 
improve further by refining our efforts to continue to attract, retain and develop women in our business. 
 
Signed -   

Date: 29 March 2018 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Luc Delafosse, Regional Vice President – Europe  
& General Manager, Jumeirah Carlton Tower 

 
 

Metrics for Jumeirah Carlton Tower’s Gender Pay Gap Report 

  The mean gender pay gap for Jumeirah Carlton Tower is 13.3% 
  The median gender pay gap for Jumeirah Carlton Tower is 8.6% 
  The mean gender bonus gap for Jumeirah Carlton Tower is 32.5% 
  The median gender bonus gap for Jumeirah Carlton Tower is 0.0% 
  The percentage of 

  male employees in Jumeirah Carlton Tower receiving a bonus is 92.6% 
 

female employees in Jumeirah Carlton Tower receiving a bonus is 89.2% 

 

Jumeirah Carlton Tower pay quartiles percentages (number of employees in each band):  

Band  Males 

Females 

Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

53.3% 

 

53.3% 

 

55.6% 

 

63.7% 

 

46.7% 

 

46.7% 

 

44.4% 

 

36.3% 

 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or below 

the lower quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

lower quartile but at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

median but at or below the upper quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 

upper quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies set out in the Equality Act 2010 

(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

Our overall results indicate that as a business we are not significantly different to other organisations within our sector, 
and  our  mean  gender  pay  gap  at  13.3%  is  significantly  below  the  national  average  (17.4%).  Additionally  our  median 
gender pay gap at 8.6% is also significantly below the national average (18.4%).At 32.5%, our mean gender bonus gap is 
below our industry sector (36.2%). 

 
 

 
Our pay quartiles demonstrate that we have a reasonably even distribution of male and female colleagues across the 
pay bandings.  
 
We do recognise a larger proportion of men in Band D and this is due to a higher number of men in senior leadership 
positions some of which traditionally have been male dominated roles. This is also a contributing factor in why there is 
a  higher  mean  bonus  gap,  as  senior  management  roles  in  our  business  are  eligible  for  a  higher  bonus,  linked  to 
business results.   

Policy Section 

Flexible Working 
 
We recognise the importance of flexibility and work life 
balance in a 24/7 business and therefore promote a 
flexible working environment for all of our colleagues at 
all levels across the business. 

Learning & Development  
 
The accelerated high performance programme for our 
top talent to identify future leadership potential talent 
is gender neutral. This programme plays a vital part in 
the future talent strategy of our business. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Remuneration 
We recognise the hard work of our colleagues and rewarded the majority of our employees with a performance based 
bonus. This amount was related to business results and was shared amongst the workforce regardless of gender hence a 
median pay gap of 0%, and this is significantly below our Industry average of 31.5%.  
 

GAP Closure 

Recruitment Strategy 

Head of Department Development 
 

 
 
 
 
Within our business 50% of our talent at this level are female and are being prepared for the next step in their career 
into an Executive leadership position within the Company. 
 
 
 
 
We continue to explore new channels of recruitment to attract the best talent into our business irrespective of gender. 
However we recognise that we need to continue to create opportunities that enhance our ambition to support, retain 
and develop our female talent in order that they reach Senior Leadership positions within our business. 
 
 
 
 
Gender equality is one of the key pillars that underpins the culture of our business. We will continue to take innovative 
steps to attract more women into our business and are committed to supporting and developing them to enable 
them  to  process  upwards  into  leadership  roles.  Our  overall  colleague  benefits  and  policies  offering,  including  our 
flexible  working  options,  were  one  of  the  key  criteria  that  led  to  our  organisation  being  recognised  with  industry 
awards including ‘HR team of the Year’ and ‘Rewards and Benefits Initiative’ by Caterer.com and ‘Building Capability 
Award’ by the HR in Hospitality Association.   
 
We are committed to making further improvements in the year ahead. 
 
Signed -   
 

Ann Whelan, VP of Human Resource - Europe 

Date: 29 March 2018 

Director of HR commitment 

 

 

 

 

 

 

