INTERFACE 2017 UK 
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT

We are an equal opportunities employer. Passionate about 
creating an inclusive environment and culture. We are publishing 
our gender pay gap to comply with the statutory reporting 
requirements of the UK Government. The data for this report has 
been taken as at 5th April 2017.

As of 5th April 2017 we employed a total of 268 people in the UK 

64%

MALES

36%

FEMALES

Our organisation operates on a European, Middle East and African (EMEA) level with 
senior functions (while perhaps UK based) supporting the entire region. 

INTERFACE 2017 UK 
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT

What is the UK Gender pay gap requirement?

The gender pay gap is the difference in the average pay between men and women. 

It is worth noting that the Gender Pay Gap differs from an equal pay gap; which is a failure 
to pay men and women like pay for like work. We have processes in place to ensure 
colleagues are treated equally and remuneration and reward is fair.

Median Pay 

The median hourly pay for female employees is 20.6 per cent more than male employees
The median bonus payments for female employees is 96 per cent less than for male employees
Median is the middle point of a number set, where half the numbers are above, and half are below.

Mean Pay 

The mean hourly pay for female employees is 4.5 per cent less than for male employees.
The mean bonus payments for males is 60 per cent more than for female employees.
Mean is the sum of the numbers divided by the amount of numbers in the set. 

Proportion of males and females paid bonus 

Bonuses were received by 57 per cent of females and 91 per cent of males. The UK organisation 
by its nature supports the EMEA organisation and as such the bonus structures cover various 
criteria including and not limited to: UK results, EMEA results, and union negotiated agreed 
bonuses in the production environment (where there is predominance of male employees). These 
factors can result in variability in bonus payments from year to year.

INTERFACE 2017 UK 
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile 

Employees ranked from lowest to highest paid then divided into 4 equal parts (quartiles). The 
upper quartile (Q4) is the highest pay band and the lower quartile (Q1) is the lowest pay band.  
The pie charts below show the percentage of males and females in each quartile.

63%

16%

37%

84%

51%

60%

49%

40%

Q1 

Q2 

Q3

Q4

As a manufacturing organisation with facilities in the UK that serve the rest of Europe we can see 
our gender pay gap is driven by:

•  More males employed in production-based roles (Q1/Q2)
•  A higher proportion of females employed in management and specialist roles (Q3/Q4)

Our commitment

Whilst we have made strides to alter the gender pay gap where we have opportunities we are 
focused on activities and initiatives in talent development internally and from a talent acquisition 
perspective across all levels of banding.

Nigel Stansfield
President, Interface EMEA
March 2018 

UK Headquarters - Interface Europe Ltd, Shelf Mills, Shelf , Halifax , West Yorkshire , HX3 7PA
Registered in England, Company No. 309779

