GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
April 2017 

 

 

 

Improving all aspects of the equality and diversity of our workforce is of the 
utmost importance to HCP. 
   
HCP’s Gender Pay Statistics  
   
As  an  employer,  we  are  required  to  undertake  Gender  Pay  Reporting  under  the  Equality  Act  2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  In complying with this obligation, we included all 
relevant employees as at 5 April 2017 when calculating the figures below. The salary data includes 
base salary and certain allowances in line with the government guidelines, and performance payments 
(bonus)  figures  over  the  previous  12  months.  This  exercise  involves  carrying-out  six  prescribed 
calculations that show the difference between average earnings of men and women in HCP.  We do 
not publish individual employee data.  
   
Official Gender Pay Gap Report:  
 

Pay Category 
Mean Hourly Pay 
Median Hourly Pay 
Proportion receiving a bonus 
Mean bonus (%) 
Median Bonus (%) 

Male (£) 
£42.43 
£39.01 
85.8% 

 
 

Female (£) 

Difference (%) 

£25.14 
£20.88 
80.7% 

 
 

+40.7% 
+46.5% 
+5.1% 
+45.2% 
+50.0% 

   
What do HCP’s Gender Pay Statistics mean?   
   
The headline statistics above suggest a significant pay gap between genders at HCP when examining 
average (mean & median) pay across the whole of HCP’s UK workforce. However, we are very clear 
that  the  issue  is  one  of  female  representation  in  higher-paying  roles,  rather  than  equal  pay  for 
equivalent roles.  Equal pay deals with the pay difference between men and women who carry-out 
the  same/similar  jobs,  or  work  of  equal  value.    The  data  below  illustrates  that  equal  pay  is  not  a 
significant issue at HCP, and includes additional data on hourly rate by pay quartile.  
   
Analysis of Gender Pay Gap Report:  
 

Male Mean 
Hourly Rate 

Female Mean 
Hourly Rate 

Difference in 
Hourly Rate 

Quartile Split 
Lower 
Lower Middle 
Upper Middle 
Upper 

Male % 
13.8% 
30.3% 
68.2% 
81.5% 

Female % 

86.2% 
69.7% 
31.8% 
18.5% 

(£) 

£15.14 
£25.21 
£32.65 
£59.98 

(£) 

£14.71 
£23.56 
£33.50 
£60.27 

(%) 

+2.8% 
+6.5% 
-2.6% 
-0.5% 

 
What are some of the reasons for HCP’s Gender Pay distribution?   
   
In the pay quartiles where there are more females, their hourly pay closely matches males in the same 
quartile, and in the two upper quartiles female hourly pay actually slightly exceeds that of their male 
counterparts. Because of this, the difference in mean bonus payments at the lower levels of pay may 
seem  surprising.  However,  this  can  partly  be  explained  by  the  relatively  high  proportion  in  these 

 

Page 1 | 3 

groups  of  part-time  females,  whose  bonus  payments  are  pro-rated.  There  are  no  part-time  male 
employees.  

There are a range of reasons for the gender pay gap at HCP, many of which are common across most 
businesses:  
   
•  Relatively  historic  gender  demographic  differences  in  HCP.    Our  overall  gender  profile  is  52% 
female and 48% male.  However, there are proportionally significantly more females occupying 
roles in the lower earnings quartile, and conversely more males in the upper quartile. Like other 
companies across our industry, we have a lower proportion of females in senior roles than we 
would like.  
Individual employee choices made around; part-time working, types of occupations, and time-out 
of work due to caring responsibilities.  

• 

•  External factors such as the sector we occupy, and the relatively technical nature of some of the 

roles, influences gender demographics. 

•  Salary sacrifice (including performance payment salary sacrifice) arrangements are excluded from 

the calculations which has distorted the results slightly.  

   
What actions being taken by HCP to reduce the Gender Pay Gap?  
  
HCP’s Management Board are fully committed to reducing the Gender Pay Gap, but appreciate that 
there is no quick fix due to the complexity of the issues surrounding the structural imbalances in our 
workforce.  The main effort is to address the gender balance across the firm at all levels and continue 
to  build  a  diverse  and  inclusive  workforce.  HCP’s  succession  planning,  recruitment  and  promotion 
policies are totally unbiassed, but we acknowledge that there is more that we can do.     
   
Some of the initiatives that HCP have include:  
•  Establishment of a Diversity Working Group to help raise awareness of the issues and promote 
best practice across the organisation. This will include setting-up a dedicated Diversity page on 
the intranet portal (‘HUB’) and promoting an informal networking forum for female employees.  
•  Review how the company can offer more family friendly arrangements, including flexible working 

where practicable.  

•  Proactive  steps  to  develop  and  support  talented  female  employees  to  progress  their  careers, 
based around the IPR process, and encourage more to apply for roles that are underrepresented.  
In  time  we  expect  more  women  to  take-on  senior  leadership  positions  with  30%  female 
representation in the Upper Quartile by 2022. 

•  Publicise senior female role models, and support informal mentoring. 
•  Providing  managers  with  gender  bias  awareness  training  (to  help  them  recognise  unconscious 

biases when making recruitment and talent management decisions).  

•  Active measures to ensure recruitment agencies present a gender balanced and diverse range of 
suitable candidates on shortlists for all vacant positions, ideally from local communities close to 
the place of work. Wherever possible, the establishment of mixed gender interview panels.  

•  Focused training for female employees to equip them with the appropriate leadership, technical 
and  managerial  competencies  to  help  them  maximise  their  career  development  opportunities 
within HCP.  
Implementing enhanced HR gender monitoring strategies and external benchmarking, particularly 
in relation to recruitment, retention and talent development.   

• 

 
People are at the core of HCP’s aim to create outstanding value through the intelligent management 
of assets. The company is committed to be an equal opportunities employer and will never knowingly 
discriminate  on  grounds  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age,  marriage  or  civil  partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, or disability. We endeavour to always 

 

Page 2 | 3 
Document Title 

 

pay employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of gender (or other characteristics 
listed above) and promote a rich diversity in our workforce.  We will continue to closely monitor pay 
and  benefits,  undertaking  regular  audits  and  ensure  that  appropriate  guidance  is  provided  to 
managers. However, we must recognise that ongoing initiatives to address the company’s gender pay 
gap will take several years to achieve the desired effect.  
 
I  confirm  that  the  above  Gender  Pay  Gap  statistical  data  is  correct  and  in  line  with  Government 
reporting regulations.  
  
                                                 

      Date:  3rd April 2018 

 

 

             

 

 
Michael Woodhead 
CEO 
HCP Social Infrastructure (UK) Limited  
    

 

Page 3 | 3 
Document Title 

 

