 

. Henshaws Gender Pay Gap Report 

5th April 2017 

 
About Henshaws 

Henshaws  is  a  northern  charity  supporting  people  living  with  sight  loss  and  a  range  of 
other disabilities to go beyond expectations.   

We  believe  that,  wherever  they  are,  everyone  has  the  right  to  an  independent  and 
fulfilling  life.  Our  support,  advice  and  training  enables  people  and  their  families  build 
skills, develop confidence, help each other and look forward to a more positive future. 

Our  services  include  a  specialist  FE  college;  a  social  enterprise  Arts  &  Crafts  Centre; a 
range  of  bespoke  packages  of  support,  activities  and  training  through  our  Community 
Services directorate; housing & support enabling people of all ages living with sight loss 
and  a  range  of  other  disabilities  to  live  more  independently;  a  range  of  training  and 
support for businesses, and Disability Support outreach services. 

We currently have just over 400 contracted staff and a range of bank staff (438 staff on 
payroll  on  5  April  2017)  of  which  75%  are  female.    This  reflects the  nature  of  the care 
sector. The charitable sector as a whole, and care roles in particular, do not offer high 
rates of pay.  We do offer a wide range of part-time and term-time only roles, coupled 
with  family-friendly  policies  and  the  combination  of  these  factors  may  explain  our 
predominance of female staff. 

Proportion of males and females in each quartile 

1st quartile 

 

2nd Quartile   

3rd Quartile   

4th Quartile   

 

 

 

 

27% male 

73% female 

22% male 

78% female 

24% male 

76% female 

27% male 

73% female 

Gender pay gap report outcomes 

Mean gender pay gap 

Median gender pay gap 

 

 

 

 

3.7% 

5.4% 

 

 

We are pleased to report only a small gender pay gap over a varied and complex range 
of  roles  within  our  four  main  northern  regional  bases.  We  are  an  equal  opportunities 
employer  and  strive  to  ensure  that  males  and  females  in  the  same  roles  receive  equal 
pay.  

We  have  just  completed  a  substantial  Job  Evaluation  project  using  a  tried  and  tested 
assessment  tool  to  further  support  our  commitment  to  ensuring  equal  pay  for  work  of 
equal value.  Our new Banding structure will be implemented from  1 April 2018 and we 
will be closely monitoring its impact on gender pay outcomes.   

We pay the Living Wage as a minimum to all staff aged 21+.   

Bonuses 

Mean Bonus gender pay gap 
Median Bonus gender pay gap 

 
Proportion of males receiving bonus payment 
Proportion of females receiving bonus payment 

 

44% 
0% 

 
13% 
14% 

Henshaws does not normally pay ‘bonuses’ as such; the main factor under this heading is 
for  Long  Service  Awards.    The  mean  gender  bonus  figure  is  heavily  skewed  by  a  set  of 
unusual circumstances which in a single instance resulted in a sum that normally would 
have been paid as an allowance being paid as a bonus on this occasion. 

Going forward 

We  are  committed  to  evaluating  the  impact  of  our  JE  driven  new  banding  structure  on  our 
gender  pay  gap  and  will  review  this  at  an  appropriate  point  in  the  next  12  months.    We  will 
continue to develop and refine our pay and reward approach including strategies to manage the 
impact on NLW uplifts on our pay differentials for care staff in a gender neutral way. 

Mandatory statement 

I  confirm  that  all  reasonable  efforts  have  been  made  to  ensure  that  the  information  published 
within this report is accurate. 

 

Signed: Nick Marr, Chief Executive Officer. 

 

 

 

