 

Travelex Gender Pay Gap Report  2017 

 
Background 

The UK government launched Gender Pay Gap Reporting in 2016. By 1 April 2018, all companies with 250+  UK-based 
employees are required to report on their Gender Pay Gap, which shows the difference between the average earnings 
of men and women as a percentage of men’s earnings. This is not the same as an equal pay gap. Equal pay law requires 
that men and women who carry out equivalent work must receive equivalent pay. At Travelex, we believe in a diverse 
and inclusive workforce. We welcome the new reporting requirement as a means to raise awareness in wider society, 
and within our business, of the issue of gender pay gap and gender imbalance in the workplace.   

Travelex – Pay1 & Bonus Gap 

The table below shows our mean2 and median3 hourly gender pay gap as at the snapshot date – 5th April 2017. The table 
also shows the mean and median bonuses paid to employees at Travelex for the period 6th April 2016 to 5th April 2017: 

 

  

  
Category  
  

  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
Difference Between Men & Women 
  
   Median 
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Mean 

13% 

27% 

59% 

  

  

  

-2% 

  

  

  

  

  

  

Bonus Paid 
  
  

Hourly Fixed Pay  

  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

The  above  data  takes  into  account  all  UK-based  jobs,  at  all  levels  and  all  salaries  within  Travelex.    Accordingly,  the 
gender  pay  gap  can  result  from  various  factors.  Although  our  gender  pay  gap  is  27%  in  favour  of  men,  the  gap  is 
significantly lower than our equivalent 2016 figure which was 37.5%. This decrease primarily results from the promotion 
of women at senior levels and the correlating salary increases. Also, during the snapshot period, our recruitment levels 
during that time saw an increase in female new hires in management level positions.  

Proportion of Employees Awarded a Bonus for the period 6th April 2016 to 5th April 2017 

59.3% 

54.0% 

At Travelex, men and woman have an equal opportunity in relation to each performance year to earn a bonus. For 
the  snapshot  period, there is  a  5%  difference  in  favour  of  women between  the  number  of  men  and  women who 
received a bonus. This is primarily driven by the fact, that the majority of bonuses awarded in the snapshot period 
were retail incentives, and we have a larger proportion of female employees employed in retail positions. 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 ‘Pay’ includes base pay, paid leave, maternity and paternity pay, sick pay, area allowance, shift pay, certain bonuses and other allowances (including car allowances) 
but excludes overtime pay, expenses, benefits-in-kind, redundancy payments, pay arrears, tax credits and the value of salary sacrifice scheme. 
2 Difference between the average hourly earnings of Travelex’s female and male employees if earnings were added together and divided by the number of employees. 
3 Difference between the mid-point value of hourly earnings of Travelex’s female and male employees if they were listed in order of pay.  
 

 
 

Page 1 

 
 

 

 

Travelex Pay Quartiles – 5th April 2017 
 

Travelex Gender Pay Gap Report  2017 

The  chart  above  illustrates  the  gender  distribution  at  Travelex  across  equally  sized  quartiles.  Each  quartile  contains 
approximately  eight-hundred  &  fifty  (850)  employees.  The  percentages  show  the  median  gender  pay  gap  in  each 
quartile. Our analysis shows the current total gap is driven by the fact there are more men in senior, higher-paid roles 
within the organisation, as our gender pay gap in lower level roles is virtually non-existent.  
 
At Travelex, we are committed to address diversity and gender imbalance while treating all our employees equally and 
fairly. We have established a business led Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which includes diverse representation 
from across all our geographies. Meeting 6 times a year the purpose of this Committee is to raise awareness of equality, 
diversity and inclusion.  Identify obstacles and problem areas, identify diversity priorities and objectives, propose actions to 
meet these priorities and monitor progress. In 2018, one of our three strategic focuses will be Developing and 
Strengthening Women in Leadership.  

 We will continue to review our diversity strategy on a regular basis to identify further areas of improvements.  

I confirm the data reported is accurate. 
 

 
Gareth Williams 
Chief Innovation & Transformation Officer   

 

 
 

Page 2 

 
 

 

 

