Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap report (UK
only)

Authored by: Daniel Bridges
Publish: 03/04/2018 16:12:00
Last update: 03/04/2018 16:27:28

The full breakdown of the results

What is the gender pay gap?

The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings
between women and men expressed as a percentage difference in hourly pay.

A positive pay gap means that male employees, on average are paid at a higher rate than
female ones.

This is not the same as equal pay, which compares individuals doing the same job.
Unequal pay for men and women has been illegal in the UK for 45 years.

Our 2017 data

Nucleus welcome the new reporting guidelines and will use these results as a way of
assisting us in our goal of ensuring there is fairness and transparency across the group
and as such we are committed to reducing our gender pay gap over the coming years.

Pay & Bonus Gap

The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly
rates of pay and bonus paid as at the snapshot date (i.e. 5th April 2017). The data covers
all of our UK-based employees across all of companies.

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

17.4%

18.6%

18.2%

22.2%

Proportion of eligible males & females receiving a

bonus

Males: 100%, Females: 100%

Proportion of males & females in each pay quartile

Top 25th: 53% Male, 47% Female

2nd 25th: 40% Male, 60% Female

3rd 25th: 29% Male, 71% Female

Bottom 25th: 30% Male, 70%
Female

Total: 38% Male, 62% Female

Pay Quartiles

Pay quartiles looks at the distribution of males to females when looking at pay,
expressed at the percentage within the charts. These quartiles are split into 4 equal
groups ranging from the highest paid to the lowest paid individuals.

The average hourly rate associated with the respective quartile is then included.

What these results tell us

Having looked into the data in additional detail, we remain confident that men and
women are paid equally for doing the equivalent jobs across our business.

However, we do have a higher distribution of male employees in senior positions,
relative to the higher number of females employed. This means that the smaller number
of male employees have a higher average hourly rate than those of women within the

company. The gap is widened further in bonus payments, which potentially reflects the
higher proportion of women working reduced hours versus men in our organisation.

The above explanations notwithstanding, we are working hard on rolling out initiatives
to help our female workforce with their career progression at Nucleus. These include
our new enhanced maternity scheme at all levels as well as improving on our flexible
working policy. As always, there is more than we can and will do to close the gap as
rapidly as possible, so welcome your questions and input.

