 

 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 
Domino Printing Sciences 
Headquartered in the UK 

 
 

The Gender Pay Gap Regulations require employers in Great Britain with more than 250 
employees to report the gender pay gap of their employees based in England, Scotland and Wales. 
The Regulations require that the data it is based on a snapshot calculated as at 5th April 2017 and 
published on the UK Government website. 
 
As with many companies, we do have a gender pay gap, though our results are consistent with 
other companies who operate in a technical, manufacturing or engineering sector. We are 
confident that we reward our employees fairly based on performance and experience, however, we 
continue to monitor the gap and are actively progressing actions to close the gap over time.  
 
The results in context:  
 

•  Gender pay gap – hourly rate  

Our report shows that there is a 15.1% mean hourly rate difference and a 12.7% median 
hourly rate difference. 

The hourly pay gap is due to having proportionally more female employees in lower paid or 
less senior roles. 

• 

Gender bonus pay gap  

 

At Domino the bonus pay gap is 19.7% for the mean difference and 13.4% for the median. 
The larger gap here reflects that the roles in which higher bonus payments were made 
during the reporting period — i.e. sales positions which include a commission bonus 
structure —  are where currently Domino have a larger proportion of men than women. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

• 

Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 

We would expect the proportion of men and women receiving a bonus to be equal 
however when this is analysed for the reporting year 2016 it shows that we recruited 
proportionality more women than men in the reporting period and therefore whilst it is 
positive that we are increasing the number of women we employ, they have not qualified to 
receive a bonus in their first year.  

 

 

 

• 

 

 

Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s pay 
structure 

This analysis shows that, compared to many organisations in similar sectors to Domino, the 
proportion of men and women at each level is quite balanced though we could still improve 
and continue our programme to support equality of opportunity.  

 

 

 
 

Things we are doing 
 

✓  We already offer a fair process of selection for recruitment and selection for promotion and 

are continually reviewing our practices to encourage more women to apply for roles 

✓  We are actively involved in organisations who support women in science and engineering 

such as WISE and STEM 

✓  We have a talent management programme which support all employees to achieve their 

aspirations 

✓  We offer flexible working arrangements for working parents 
✓  We have a strong mentoring programme with excellent role models 

 

I confirm that the published information for Domino Printing Sciences is accurate as required by 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay gap information) Regulations 2017 
 

 

 

