 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
2017 
 
As  part  of  our  commitment  to  build  an  inclusive  and  diverse  business  we  are  committed  to  fostering  an  inclusive  environment  and  promoting  equal 
opportunities for all. The Senior Leadership team in the UK has developed a detailed action plan outlining how we will build a more inclusive culture with a key 
focus on gender balance. 
 
Under UK legislation that came into force in April 2017 we are required to publish data about our gender pay gap. Gender pay  gaps relates to differences in 
average hourly male and female pay and bonuses and does not compare the pay received by men and women, or groups of people, for doing the same or 
equivalent work, known as equal pay. 
 
OUR RESULTS 
 

 

 
MEAN PAY GAP 
  
The mean pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay rate for all 
men employed by LMH UK Ltd and for all women employed by LMH UK 
Ltd. 
 

 
MEDIAN PAY GAP 
 
The median pay gap is the difference in the hourly rate between the pay of 
the middle female employee and the pay of the middle male employee when 
male and female employees are listed in order of hourly pay rate. 
 

34.1% 

29.8% 

                            
 

  

 

                              
   

 

 
QUARTILES 
 
This shows the proportion of males to females in each pay quartile in the Company. All relevant employees are ranked from the lowest rate of pay to the 
highest, then the list is spilt into four equal sections and the percentage of male and female employees in each quartile is calculated. 
 

 

 

 

Lower pay quartile 

Lower middle pay quartile 

Upper middle pay quartile 

Upper pay quartile 

 

 

 

58.2% 

 

41.8% 

 

 

37.3% 

 

62.7% 

 

 

20.9% 

 

79.1% 

 

 

13.6% 

 

86.4% 

 
 
BONUS GAP 
 

 
MEAN BONUS GAP 
  
The mean bonus gaps tells us the difference in the average bonus payment 
for men and women. 
 
 

90.1% 

 

  

                            
 
 
MEDIAN BONUS GAP 
 
The median bonus gap is the difference in the bonus between the middle 
female employee and the middle male employee when male and female 
employees are listed in order of bonus payment. 
 

                              
 

 

81.8% 

 
  PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN WHO RECEIVE A BONUS 
 
This calculation shows the proportion of females that received a bonus 
compared to the total female population. 
 
 
 
 
                                               96.6% 
 

 
PERCENTAGE OF MEN WHO RECEIVE A BONUS 
 
This calculation shows the proportion of males that received a bonus 
compared to the total male population. 
 
 
 
 
                                               96.6% 

 
 
At first glance the difference in gender pay between men and women seems to be significant but overall this illustrates structural effects derived from our 
integrated business model and of the industry in which we operate rather than any pay inequality. 
 
The main drivers of this gap are as follows: 
 

  The material handling industry in which we operate is a predominantly male environment with entry levels though service and sales engineering 

routes.  

  There are more men than women in management roles. This, again reflects the experience gained in sales and service environments that are 

predominantly male. 

  Linde Material Handling UK is the head office environment where a lot of back office administration is concentrated, particularly in Finance. Reflecting 

a national trend, there are more women than men in lower level administration roles where remuneration levels will be lower. 

  During the period considered for the calculation, given a change in practice, two sets of senior management bonuses were paid due to scheduling 
issues. This has distorted both the pay gap and the bonus pay gap. This occurrence is unusual and is not expected to be an issue in future years. 

  The figures include sales commission where the recipients are all male and management bonuses where the majority of recipients are male. 
  The basic salary figures are net of salary sacrifice contributions for pensions and child care vouchers that affect basic pay. 
  There is no difference in the percentage of men and women receiving a bonus but the bonus pay gap shows that there are more males receiving 

higher bonuses than females. 

 

 
 
OUR COMMITMENT TO CLOSING THE GAP 
 
Attracting talented women into our industry is a challenge but we are committed both to equality and encouraging a diverse workforce. We have developed 
initiatives which we hope will encourage more females into the industry and initiatives to address the gaps that have been identified. 
 

 

Introduced a set of Values and Leadership Principles in a drive to change company culture and has launched a new gender neutral appraisal system 
based on these values. 

  Over recent years we have increased the number of women managers and we will continue to develop more women managers as part of the 

succession plan. We have appointed 5 women as Project Managers for our key strategic development projects as development, one of whom has 
subsequently been promoted to a more senior position. 

  Continue to recruit from a wider range of industries and we have extended the training for new sales and service staff to integrate them into the 

business more quickly. 

  Continue to monitor the differences in gender pay taking actions where appropriate. Consider initiatives to identify and remove barriers to female 

advancement. We have created the new position of Talent Development Manager for the whole business to ensure its talent development processes 
are gender neutral. 

  Over the last 18 months 11 female first line managers have received management training to further their development. 
  Competency based job descriptions and competency based interviews have been introduced to promote more effective gender neutral recruitment. 
  We have reviewed our bonus structures to be gender neutral. 

 
 
 
I confirm that the contents of this report are accurate. 
 

 

Massimiliano Sammartano 
Managing Director 
Linde Material Handling (UK) Ltd 
 

