              About Sky Investors Media centre Bigger Picture Work for Sky Sky customers Contact us Media centre News releases Media packs Our blog Programme information Biographies About Sky Investors Media centre Bigger Picture Work for Sky Sky customers Contact us News releases Media packs Our blog Programme information Biographies Sky releases Gender Pay Gap Report Today we have announced our Gender Pay Gap Report. To find out more please watch our video below: Stephen van Rooyen, UK CEO, Sky said, “Fairness and equality are values that sit at the very heart of our business and we ensure we pay our men and women equally for doing the same role with the same level of experience. However, as with many big organisations, we have more men than women in senior, digital and technology roles and this is what is driving our current gender pay gap. We know that when we achieve gender balance across these areas our gender pay gap will be eliminated. “We’ve already initiated a number of programmes aimed at improving gender representation across our many different teams and whilst we’re seeing improvements, we know there is more we can do. We have ambitious targets in place - such as aiming for 50:50 gender balance amongst our most senior roles by 2020 - which demonstrates the importance we’re placing on improving gender balance across all levels of our organisation.” To find out more about what we’re doing to address our gender pay gap, please click here . We appreciate there is currently a lot of interest in the topic of gender pay and levels of female representation  across the broadcasting industry, with a call for greater transparency. In line with legal requirements, we have disclosed the gender pay gap for Sky UK Ltd – the group that employs all our broadcasting plus corporate teams- along with our other employing entities that make up Sky UK Plc. You’ll see that both the mean and median gaps within this employing entity are below our average and when we look at only our employees who work on-screen, these gaps reduce even further. You can also read about what we’re doing to encourage more women into tech here and find out about our new Women in Home Service initiative here . For further information please contact: Eleanor Mills: Eleanor.mills@sky.uk About Sky Sky is Europe's leading entertainment company, serving 23 million customers across seven countries - UK, Ireland, Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain and Switzerland. The company had annual reported revenues of £12.9 billion in 2016/17, and is Europe’s leading investor in television content with an annual programming spend of around £7 billion. From exclusive partnerships with HBO, Showtime and Warner Bros. to Sky Original Productions, Sky offers the best and broadest range of content along with the best viewing experience to suit each and every customer. Whether that’s through the multi-award winning next generation box, Sky Q, or Sky’s contract-free online streaming service, NOW TV, customers have access to the latest movies, drama, sports and kids entertainment wherever and whenever they like. This is all supported by Sky’s best in class customer service. Sky’s success is not just based on what the company does but how it does it. Named as one of the Top 10 Green Companies in the World by Newsweek, one of the world’s most recognised rankings of business’s environmental performance, Sky ensures its responsible business strategy is embedded right across the group. Three new major commitments have been launched for Sky’s corporate campaign Sky Ocean Rescue; the reduction of our own single-use plastics by 2020; an investment fund of £25 million over five years in technology solutions; and support of marine protected areas across our markets. Sky has over 31,000 employees and is listed as one of The Times Top 50 employers for women. Sky is listed on the London Stock Exchange (SKY). Explore Sky Sky Media Sky for Business Sky Communal TV Store Locator Safety Centre Work for Sky Sky Initiatives Sky Ocean Rescue Sky Academy in the UK & Ireland Sky Academy in Italy Sky Channels Sky 1 Sky Atlantic Sky Arts Sky Cinema Sky Living Sky News Sky Sports More Sky Sites NOW TV Sky Protect Terms & Conditions Privacy & Cookie Notice Accessibility Modern Slavery Act 2016 Modern Slavery Act 2017 Site Map Sky © 2017 Sky UK    