O U R   C O M M I T M E N T   T O   E Q U A L I T Y   A N D   D I V E R S I T Y 
U N D E R P I N S   A L L   A S P E C T S   O F   O U R   P E O P L E   E X P E R I E N C E .

Gender pay gap reporting shows the difference in average pay between an organisation’s male and female employees 
irrespective of role or grade. 

This is different to an equal pay review which looks at role and grade to see if there are pay differences between men 
and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally 
because they are a man or a woman.  An organisation can have a gender pay gap without having an equal pay issue. 
At Southampton Solent University, we are confident, on the basis of our last equal pay review, that staff undertaking 
the same roles (and roles assessed to be of equal value) are paid within the same pay grade.

GENDER PAY GAP FIGURES (31 MARCH 2017)

Pay and bonus gap 

Proportion of colleagues receiving a bonus payment 

Mean

Median

11.9%

11.2%

Pay gap 

13%

13.7%

Bonus pay gap 13.8%

5%

This data shows the difference in pay and bonuses (for example, special payments) between all men and women at Solent.

Pay Quartiles

Lowest quartile

Quartile 2 

Quartile 3

Highest quartile

45.4% 

41.9% 

58.5% 

63.7% 

54.6% 

58.1% 

41.5% 

36.3%

Male

Female

This data shows the gender distribution across four equally sized quartiles of the University.

WHAT THIS DATA TELLS US

At Solent, we employ more men than women, and men occupy more of our higher graded positions.
This impacts our pay and bonus gap in two ways. Firstly, we have a different distribution of men and women across 
our four pay quartiles. Secondly, more men than women occupy roles that attract higher allowances (for example, 
shift allowance), due to the requirements of the roles they occupy.

OUR COMMITMENT TO IMPROVING OUR GENDER PAY GAP

We aspire to be a workplace of choice and are committed to recruiting, developing and retaining the best 
people irrespective of age, ethnicity, disability, gender, religion or personal beliefs or sexual orientation.

Over the next 12 months we will

•

•

•

•

Review our special payments scheme to ensure greater equity in high performance payments

Identify barriers that prevent progression for women

Introduce agile career pathways to enhance transparency and to provide clear routes for development
and advancement; and

Identify through talent management and succession planning our future female leaders and encourage
participation in the Aurora Leadership programme.

Solent is an inclusive university and we are committed to creating an environment where everyone 
can fulfil their potential.

Professor Graham Baldwin
Vice-Chancellor

