ON THE BEACH LIMITED
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

ON THE BEACH LIMITED
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

INTRODUCTION
As an employer with more than 250 employees, On the Beach Limited1 is 
required2 to report the pay gap between its male and female employees.  
The gender pay gap shows the diﬀerence in the average pay between all 
men and women in a company’s workforce. It is diﬀerent to equal pay which 
deals with the pay diﬀerences between men and women who carry out the 
same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. We are conﬁdent that On the 
Beach complies with all equal pay laws.

GENDER PAY GAP DATA (YEAR UP TO AND INCLUDING 5 APRIL 2017)

The Gender Pay Gap and Bonus Gap
The table below shows the overall mean and median gender pay gap 
between male and female employees based on hourly rates of pay as at the 
snapshot date (5 April 2017). It also captures the mean and median 
diﬀerence between bonuses paid to men and women at On the Beach in 
the year up to 5 April 2017.

On the Beach Limited

Hourly Pay

Bonus

MEAN

26.7%

MEAN

52.0%

MEDIAN

28.3%

MEDIAN

58.4%

1   This report relates to On the Beach Limited only as no other companies in the group have more than 250 employees. Simon Cooper  
    (CEO) and Paul Meehan (CFO) are employees of On the Beach Group plc so the ﬁgures do not include their remuneration.
2    Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 (the “Regulations”)  

Pay Quartiles
Percentage of male/female employees in each pay quartile

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

TOP QUARTILE

MALE

46.3%

MALE

35.2%

MALE

66.7%

MALE

75.5%

FEMALE

53.7%

FEMALE

64.8%

FEMALE

33.3%

FEMALE

24.5%

ON THE BEACH LIMITED
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus

MALE

48.6%

FEMALE

72.5%

UNDERSTANDING THE GAP
We believe that there are two main reasons for the On the Beach gender pay gap:

Ratio of men to women in senior roles

1.  
There are more men than women in senior high paid roles within the business. 
More women than men receive a bonus, and this is due to more regular bonuses 
being paid in our contact centre (where the proportion of women is higher) than 
elsewhere in the business (where bonuses tend to be annual). However, where 
bonuses are paid, there is a bonus gap between men and women, and this again is 
due to more men than women holding senior positions where higher bonuses are 
paid (as compared with bonuses paid at less senior levels such as in our contact 
centre).
  
We would like to see more females in senior roles and we believe that we retain and 
encourage women to compete for promotions through initiatives such as our ﬂexible 
working policy and the return to work support that we oﬀer following maternity 
leave. We also oﬀer part-time working to many employees across the company 
(including those in senior roles). We are conﬁdent that we have women throughout 
the business who will be able to reach senior roles in the coming years and we are 
committed to training and developing our staﬀ to ensure they can meet their full
potential at On the Beach.

Men in technology roles

2.  
The majority of our technology roles are ﬁlled by men. We are heavily reliant on tech 
talent for our business to succeed and it is widely recognised and reported that 
there is an inherent shortage of women who are qualiﬁed in, and currently working 
in, science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) roles. There are salary 
premiums and high bonuses on oﬀer for those qualiﬁed to perform these roles and it 
is a combination of this and a lack of women applying for and therefore being 
oﬀered the roles that contributes to both our gender pay gap and bonus gap. 
This gender imbalance is something that we are committed to addressing, but we 
appreciate that a shift in this trend will take time.  We have built relationships with 
tech community groups which are centred on women in STEM by sponsoring events 
and providing coaching at their training sessions. We also advertise roles online via 
women in technology sites to ensure that we reach a diverse talent pool.
  
Notwithstanding our eﬀorts to date we appreciate there is more to do and we 
regularly review our approach to reducing the gender pay gap. 

At On the Beach, we are conﬁdent that men and women are paid equally for doing 
equivalent jobs. We recognise that the current pay gap is caused by fewer women 
than men being in higher paying roles that make up the upper middle and top pay 
quartiles. It is our aim going forward to promote and recruit more women into these 
senior roles across the business, which we believe will help to lessen the imbalance 
in pay at On the Beach.

DECLARATION
We conﬁrm that On the Beach’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet 
the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.
 

 
SIMON COOPER 
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
29 March 2018 

