2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Diversity and Customer Success

Esri UK employees by age range

40

l

s
e
30
e
y
o
p
m
20
e
 
f
o
 
r
e
b
10
m
u
N

0

20 to 24

25 to 29

30 to 34

35 to 39

40 to 44

45 to 49

50 to 54

55 to 59

Over 60

F

M

At Esri UK we believe that being both people-oriented 

and focused on our customers’ success is not only the 

right thing to do, but will help us to grow.

As part of this we recognise the importance and value 

of having a diverse and inclusive workforce – and the 

benefits that this can bring to both our employees and 

our customers.

Historically, the GIS industry and therefore our workforce 

has been male dominated, and men currently represent 

71% of our employees. However, this is changing and in 

recent years we’ve seen a significant increase in female 

recruits, particularly amongst our graduates. This is 

something we all welcome. 

We are on a journey.  As a Company we are 

committed to improving the gender balance 

within our industry, and to engage and empower 

more women in our workforce. 

2 | Esri UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap ReportWhat is the Gender Pay Gap?

The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the hourly pay of men and women, averaged across all roles and levels within the 
Company. It is influenced by a range of factors, and in Esri UK’s case it is heavily influenced by the demographics and gender balance 
of the Company’s workforce.

The Gender Pay Gap is different from equal pay

Mean Pay Gap

Equal Pay is enshrined in law and is intended to ensure that 
women are paid equally to men for equal or equivalent work.

All females are paid equitably compared to their male 

colleagues based on their experience, performance,  

skills and knowledge.

Average hourly pay for all men, divided by the average hourly pay for all women 
within a Company.

Median Pay Gap

Ruth Mackay & Harriet Smith 
HR Business Partners 
Esri UK

The median represents the middle point in the population. If you  
separately lined up all of the women in the Company, and all of  
the men, the median pay gap is the difference between 
the hourly pay of the middle woman compared to  
the middle man.

3 | Esri UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap ReportEsri UK’s Gender Pay Gap results

Pay Gap between male and female employees

Hourly rate of pay

Bonus pay

Mean

32%

57%

Median

43%

46%

Proportion of male and female employees 
receiving bonus pay

95.2%

95.8%

M

F

Proportion of male and female employees 
according to quartile pay bands

Upper

87%

Upper middle

82%

Lower middle

77%

Lower

44%

13%

18%

23%

56%

Population by quartile

Quartiles represent the pay rates for all employees from highest 
to lowest, grouped into four equal groups.  The percentages 
show the proportion of men and women in each quartile. 

Pay data for UK employees from the ‘pay period’ including 5th April 2017 (i.e. payments made in the month of April 2017), as specified by the UK regulations. The pay calculations are based on FTE adjusted total pay 
received in the month of April 2017 and includes basic salary after salary sacrifice deductions, allowances (such as a car allowance), commission, performance bonus (on a pro-rated basis) and any other bonus payments 
paid. The calculations exclude any overtime payments and benefits in kind.

If you have any questions about our data, please don’t hesitate to contact us at HR@esriuk.com.

4 | Esri UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap ReportUnderstanding our results

Gender Pay Gap for like-for-like comparisons

Where we have like-for-like comparisons, female employees are 
paid the same as their male equivalents.

The upper quartile ranges reflect our demographic profile.  The 
majority of senior technical, commercial and leadership roles are 
occupied by our more experienced employees – and these are 
typically men.

Upper

87%

Upper middle

82%

Lower middle

77%

Lower

44%

13%

18%

23%

56%

Conversely, women currently represent a much higher 
proportion of cleaning, administrative and entry level roles in the 
lower quartile ranges. 

Our demographics are changing, but it is these differences 
which explain our results.

5 | Esri UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap ReportOur plans

At Esri UK we are committed to closing the Gender Pay Gap.

A fundamental part of this is to attract more women into the GIS industry, and to ensure that having recruited female employees, we 
are able to engage and retain them for the long-term.  As a Company we have a proud track record of long-service, and it is the current 
crop (of more gender-balanced recruits) who will contribute to our Company’s and customers’ future successes.

Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths

Recruitment

Things we are already doing

Things we are already doing

Free Esri software for all GCSE and A-Level geography classes.

We recruit on an equal opportunities basis.

This is significant because geography has a high uptake amongst females.

Rigorous recruitment and a strict meritocracy.

Plans for the future

Plans for the future

Strategic partnerships & investments to encourage females to take  
STEM subjects and promote a more gender-neutral GIS industry.

Our Culture
Things we are already doing

Integrity is a core Company value.

Balanced slate for internships and work experience.

Review language used in recruitment and management 
training in terms of unconscious bias.

Progression
Things we are already doing

Equal opportunities for pay increases and progression.

An inclusive, welcoming and engaging workplace for everyone.

Outcomes are proportionally representative.

Plans for the future

Increased use of agile and flexible working practices.

Diversity and Inclusion training for all employees.

Plans for the future

Increased use of mentoring.

Retain a strict meritocracy and increase awareness of unconscious bias.

6 | Esri UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap ReportAt Esri UK, we are proud of having a workplace which is engaging, inclusive, 

and focused on our customers’ success. 

However, we are on a journey and fully acknowledge that we have a long 

way to go to increase gender diversity and to improve our gender balance, 

especially within our senior technical, commercial and leadership roles.    

We have a clear plan that we are implementing to achieve this.  We believe 

that this will help us to engage and empower more women in our workforce 

and that over time this will result in us closing the pay gap.

As the market leader in our industry we have an opportunity and a 

responsibility to make a difference, and we’re determined to do so.  

This will be good for our industry, for our customers and for ourselves.

Anthony Maughan-Brown 
Head of HR and Organisational Development 
Esri UK 

Declaration

We confirm that the information and data contained within this report are accurate 
and in line with the UK government’s Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

Huw Davies 
Finance Director 
Esri UK

If you have any questions please don’t hesitate to contact us at HR@esriuk.com.