Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

1

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Introduction

Leeds College of Building is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work and learn.

This is reflected in our values of: 

Respectful

to value diversity, care for and 
support each other and the 
environment.

Aspirational

to achieve excellence in all we do.

Accountable

to be responsible for our actions.

Inspirational

to be creative and innovative in 
all we do.

Integrity

to be open, fair and honest.

Enjoyable

to have fun and succeed.

We welcome legislation introduced by the Government for organisations with 250 or more employees to 
disclose their gender pay gap each year. This requires us to publish specific information about our gender 
pay gap position, including details of mean and median gender pay gaps, as well as a gender breakdown of 
highest to lowest earners. 

We believe that this transparency will improve understanding of the many factors that contribute to a 
gender pay gap within a specialist College and hopefully drive a positive change within the College and the 
wider construction and built environment sector. 

We also see gender pay reporting as a positive opportunity for a number of reasons:
 ⚫ It will help to confirm to existing and 

prospective employees that we are 
committed to building a diverse and 
inclusive workplace.

 ⚫ It provides an opportunity to demonstrate 
to all our stakeholders that we are striving 
to address any gender pay gap and as such 
we are a fair and ethical employer. 

 ⚫ It helps us monitor pay and career 

progression more closely to ensure all 
our employees irrespective of gender, are 
supported to reach their full potential and 
are appropriately rewarded.

 ⚫ We can measure progress over the next few 

years. 

Whilst we have robust processes in place to ensure we do not have an equal pay issue (i.e. male and 
female employees are paid at the same level for doing a similar job) we recognise that by looking at the 
average pay by gender within the College we have a gender pay gap that needs to be addressed. This 
report highlights the context surrounding why we have a gender pay gap and some strategies that we will 
use to address the gap.

Ian Billyard
Principal

2

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Gender pay gaps are the outcome of economic, cultural, societal and 
educational  factors.  Some  argue  that  they  also  reflect  the  outcomes 
of personal choice, but, whereas the decision to seek paid employment 
may  be  an  individual  choice,  the  outcome  of  that  choice  is  strongly 
influenced by matters outside of the control of the individual concerned, 
and it is still the case that women’s choices are more constrained than 
those of men. The key influences on the gender pay gap are: part time 
working;  occupational  segregation;  undervaluing  of  women’s  work; 
unpaid  caring  responsibilities;  pay  discrimination;  differences  in 
human capital, The drivers are complex, and feed into each other…

(CIPD – Gender Reporting Guide 2017).

“

Context
“

Leeds College of Building is the only specialist further & higher education construction college in the UK. 
As such the makeup of our workforce generally reflects that of the construction and built environment 
sector, which traditionally employs more males. Conversely, the opposite is true for the further education 
sector, which generally employs more females. 

As at the reporting date (31st March 2017) we employed 232 males and 146 females. 
Our mean pay gap is 25.9% (the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male employees and that 
of female employees) and our median pay gap is 31.9% (the difference between the median hourly rate of 
pay of male employees and that of female employees).  

3

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017The College believes that its gender pay gap is attributable to a number of different and complex factors 
including:

 ⚫ Occupation segregation – the College 

tends to reflect the construction industry 
and the predominance of males within 
the industry. As a consequence we have 
a greater proportion of males in higher 
paid, traditionally male-dominated roles 
(teachers) which form a significant portion 
of our workforce. The majority of lecturing 
roles are occupied by males (85%). The 
majority of curriculum management / 
director roles are also occupied by males 
(94%). 

 ⚫ This follows through, within the College, 
to the high numbers of males working in 
the highest paid work – 82 males (87%) are 
paid in the upper quartile compared to 12 
females (13%). 

 ⚫ By contrast we have high numbers of 

females working in lower paid roles – 70 
females (74%) are paid in the lower quartile 
compared to 20 males (26%). Females 
have traditionally been employed within 
business support functions such as catering 
and administration.

 ⚫ Part time working also influences the 

gender pay gap. The majority of part time 
staff within the College are female and 
traditionally the part time roles that are 
available are paid at the lower end of our 
career family salary structure.

4

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Data

ALL EMPLOYEES
MEAN AND MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP

146

232

TOTAL EMPLOYEES

£11.26

£15.19

£10.49

£15.41

MEAN GENDER PAY GAP 

25.9%

MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP 

31.9%

ALL EMPLOYEES
QUARTILES BASED ON SALARY BANDINGS
100

73.7%

55.3%

44.7%

26.3%

80

60

40

20

0

76.8%

87.2%

FEMALE
MALE

23.2%

12.8%

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

UPPER MIDDLE

UPPER

GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY ROLE

1

7

3

17

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

MANAGEMENT SPINE

19
111
LECTURERS

123

97

SUPPORT STAFF

GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY ROLE
MEAN

£24.60

£35.69

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

PAY GAP 31.1%

£19.64

£19.76

MANAGEMENT SPINE

PAY GAP 0.6%

£15.64

£16.28
LECTURERS
PAY GAP 3.9%

£11.66
£10.27
SUPPORT STAFF
PAY GAP 11.9%

GENDER DISTRIBUTION BY ROLE
MEDIAN

£24.60

£28.51

SENIOR MANAGEMENT

PAY GAP 13.7%

£19.44

£20.02

MANAGEMENT SPINE

PAY GAP 2.9%

£15.41

£16.78
LECTURERS
PAY GAP 8.2%

£9.33
£12.15
SUPPORT STAFF
PAY GAP 23.26%

5

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Closing The Gap

We recognise that we need to do more to address the gender pay gap and we are committed to 
either continuing or introducing tangible action as follows: 

We firmly believe in appointing the best candidate for the role, regardless of 
their gender or other factors. We will however, continue to keep under review 
our Recruitment Strategy to ensure that it promotes the recruitment and 
progression of females in professional roles within construction and STEM 
related education to address the current underrepresentation.

We will continue to actively promote construction and the built environment as 
a career to women in an attempt to address the traditional dominance of men 
working within the sector. 

We will deliver unconscious bias training to relevant managers and staff to 
ensure fairness in the application of our policies and procedures and treatment 
of staff and students. 

We currently have a good track record of supporting flexible working for 
our existing employees irrespective of gender. We will also ensure that this 
is promoted to all our potential employees irrespective of level through our 
recruitment adverts, website, social media and other related documentation.

We will undertake a promotional campaign to highlight existing staff who are 
female role models to promote the career paths available to females which 
encourages progression within and recruitment to the College.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

6
6

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017We will continue to ensure that our reward policies are transparent and 
demonstrably equitable.

We will place an increased focus on succession planning and consider 
innovative development opportunities for our employees at each stage of their 
career, irrespective of gender. 

We will monitor access to CPD to ensure that it supports career progression 
and develop an accessible management development programme.

We will continue to promote our close connection with the WISE campaign 
(Women in Science & Engineering) and other female projects.

We will change the terms of reference of the College’s Equality & Inclusion 
Committee to include responsibility for scrutiny and monitoring of the College’s 
gender pay gap.

We recognise that meaningful and sustained change within the College will take 
time but we will ensure that our actions and progress, related to the gender pay 
gap are reported in the College’s Annual Equality & Inclusion Report and to our 
Board of Governors.

7

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017