Aaron  
Services 

Gender Pay 
Gap Report 

2017/18

Our Goals

We will begin work on developing a diverse engineering
and construction workforce by utilising our apprenticeship
programmes, our recruitment strategies, and leadership
development programmes to ensure we have the talent
foundation and future ability to sustain the diversity of our
business 
 
We will ensure there is a fair and transparent bonus pay
system at every level of the business

One of the Group’s most important values is ‘Care’. Once we 
have the right people, we want them to stay with us and flourish. 
To support females in the business, we are launching a diversity 
network called ‘Women in Business’, which will be led by our 
Chairman, Bob Holt, to gain valuable insight into their experiences 
and how we can encourage more representation at Senior 
Management level.

Our overall aim is to develop a welcoming and engaging 
working environment that promotes a positive and truly diverse 
workforce across the Group

Introduction
This report follows legislation that came 
into force in April 2017 which stipulates 
that employers with more than 250 
employees are required to publish their 
gender pay gap analysis results to the 
government and the general public. 

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap is concerned with 
differences in the average earnings of men 
and women, regardless of their role or 
seniority.  
 
Is gender pay and equal pay the same?
No, equal pay focuses on pay differences 
between individuals or groups performing 
the same or similar work whereas gender 
pay is a broader measure of average 
earnings. 
 
What period does the figures capture?
For this particular report, the regulations 
stipulate we review relevant pay periods 
which included 5 April 2017.  For all 
employees we measured the pay period 1 
April 2017 – 30 April 2017.     

For bonus pay calculations, the regulations 
state we measure any employees who 
received bonus payments during the 12 
months prior to the 5 April 2017. 

1

Everwarm Gender Pay Gap Report 2017/18

1

Lakehouse Gender Pay Gap Report 2018Aaron Services

What do our Gender Pay results show at a glance?  
Across the industry and in our Company we recognise 
that our workforce is predominately male (239 males in 
comparison with 47 females) with a high proportion of 
men in engineering roles.  
   
The average gender pay gap within the industry currently 
sits at 23.3% with the UK average recorded as 18.1% so 
we recognise we have steps to make to reduce this gap. 
We recognise that females are underrepresented which is 
particularly pronounced in engineering and senior roles.     

Our Gender Pay Results
The chart below show the overall median and mean 
gender pay gap, which shows those employed on the 
snapshot date of 5 April 2017.  The bonus gap is based 
on bonuses paid in the year to 5 April 2017.
 

40%

73%

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

-5%

-77%

Median Bonus Gap

Mean Bonus Gap

 
 
The mean pay gap is the difference between average 
hourly earnings of males and females, whereas the 
median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints 
of hourly earnings of men and women.  It takes the middle 
salary from the lowest to highest.   

The table below demonstrates the % of men and women 
and how they are spread across the company structure. 
This is shown in pay band quartiles, the lowest pay bands 
being A and B, and the higher levels being C and D.

Aaron Services 
Proportion of Women in Each Quartile 

51% 

band A 

Female

band B

Female

7% 

band C

Female

1% 

band D

Female

6% 

Band A - Lowest   I   Band D - Highest

Whilst we recognise the dominance of male labour 
in the meter installation and electrical workforce, our 
results clearly confirm under-representation of females in 
quartiles B, C and D. We must look at how we engage 
with and encourage females into the industry in all 
disciplines, especially those in engineering and at senior 
level. 
 
Going forward we now have some exciting opportunities
to develop and shape our business and the gender gap
information will provide an invaluable insight into the way 
we move forward.  
 
The key learnings from the benchmarking process are 
that we need to develop a clear strategy on developing 
a diversely represented business at all levels. A business 
that is respectful, encouraging and promotes talent. 
   

 

Our calculations show that 6.5% of females received a 
bonus in comparison with 61.5% of males.  
 
Our bonus gap indicates that females recieved a higher 
bonus than males within the business. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2

Aaron Services Gender Pay Gap Report 2017/18

We are passionate

about fairness, equality, 

inclusion and are 

committed to reducing 

our gender pay gap

Ian Siddons 

SHRBP

