MERTON 
COLLEGE 
OXFORD 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

The  gender  pay  gap  for  Merton  College,  as  recorded  at  5  April  2017,  is  set  out 
below.  This  report  is  published  in  accordance  with  the  College's  statutory 
obligations and  as  an  employer with  more than  250 employees. 

Hourly Pay Rate 

The  gender pay  gap in  hourly pay has  been  calculated  as  follows: 

•  as  a  mean average female  earnings are  19.5°/o lower 
•  as  a  median average female earnings are 4.7°/o lower 

In  total,  the  pay  of  377  employees  is  represented  in  these  data.  47 .5%  of 
employees  are 
include  academic  and 
administrative employees,  casual  workers and  out tutors. 

female  and  52.5%  male.  These 

Bonus Pay 

Merton College  does  not make bonus  payments to  employees. 

Pay Quartiles 

The  proportion  of males  and  females  in  each  quartile  of the  College  payroll  at 5 
April  2017  is  recorded  as  follows: 

Quartile 

Upper 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower 

Female O/o 

Male 0/o 

31.9 

59.6 

38.3 

60.0 

68.1 

40.4 

61.7 

40.0 

Merton College 

Merton  is  a  constituent  member  of the  University  of  Oxford.  The  College  is  a 
progressive,  diverse  and  inclusive  international  community  with  a  worldwide 
reputation  for  its  academic  and  research  activities.  Equality  and  diversity  are 
fundamental  to  its success. 

Merton actively seeks to recruit and  remunerate individuals of the highest calibre, 
fairly and irrespective of gender, race or disability. In doing so, the College is  fully 
committed  to  providing  equal  opportunities through  its recruitment and  selection 
processes. 

Employees  are  paid  in  accordance  with  the specific  criteria  of a  role,  as  informed 
by  external  academic  pay  scales  and/or  known  market  rates.  Merton  is  an 
accredited  Living  Wage  employer  whose  policy  and  practice  is  to  pay  men  and 
women  equally  for  doing  the  same  job.  Decisions  about  payments  to  senior 
academic  staff and  College  officers  are  subject to  the  scrutiny  of a  Stipends  and 
Allowances Committee,  which  is  predominantly made up of external  members. 

Individual  progression  is  determined  by  personal  merit  and  the  application  of 
specific  criteria  relating  to  the  duties  of  each  post.  Merton  actively  monitors 
matters of equality and diversity across all  aspects of College life through a termly 
meeting  of its  Equality  Forum  which  reports  directly  to  the  College's  Governing 
Body. 

These  data  will  be  reviewed  by  the  Governing  Body  with  the  aim  of identifying 
means  by  which  both  the  mean  and  the  median  gender  pay  gaps  in  hourly  pay 
might be  reduced. 

I  confirm that the published  data  are accurate. 

Charles Alexander 
Finance  Bursar 

