 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Our 2017 
Gender Pay 
Gap report 

 
Sogeti UK - Working to close the pay gap and 
encourage more women into senior positions in IT 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Pay & Bonus Gap 

 
 
 

Difference between and women 
 
Hourly fixed pay  
 

Mean 
7.8% 
78.0% 

Bonus paid 

 

Median 
0.7% 
98.5% 

  
  
  

 
This table shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based our hourly rates of 
pay  as  at  the  snapshot  date  (5th  April  2017).  It  also  captures  the  mean  and  median 
difference bonuses paid to men and women in the twelve months to 5th April 2017. 
 
The hourly gender pay gaps are very low, especially when compared with other firms in 
our  sector.  We  won’t  be  satisfied  until  both  numbers  are  zero,  but  we  can  be  pleased 
that  action  on  this  subject  over  recent  years  has  succeeding  in  shrinking  what  was  a 
small pay gap to a very small pay gap. 
 

Bonus Eligibility Gap 

 

 

 

Diagram 1.0: The proportion of men and women who received a bonus in the year to 5th April 2017 

 
Sogeti UK is a small firm. We pay relatively small bonuses to a selection of medium-level 
colleagues and we pay larger bonuses only at the most senior levels and in our business 
development roles. While we have been able to shrink the gender gap for hourly pay, we 
can only shrink the bonus gap by encouraging more women into our bonus-paying roles. 
This is a longer-term process than fixing the hourly pay gap as it can take many years to 
reach senior positions. 

 

 
 
 

Pay Quartiles 

 

Diagram 1.1:  Gender distribution at Sogeti UK across four equally-sized quartiles 

 

 

 

 
In  the  past  three  years,  over  30%  of  our  technical  graduates  have  been  female.  While 
we  would  rather  this  figure  was  50%,  it  is  in  a  context  where,  at  university  “Men 
continue  to  dominate  subjects  such  as  engineering  and  technology,  physical  sciences, 
computer science, architecture and mathematical sciences” (The Guardian website, May 
2016)  and  “87  percent  of  Computer  Science  enrolments  within  the  UK  belong  to  men” 
(www.studyinternational.com). 
 
As  we  only  pay  bonus  to  senior  colleagues,  we  can  only  close  the  bonus  pay  gap  by 
having more women in senior roles. In our last two promotion rounds, women have been 
more  successful  than  men  when  applying  for  a  rise  in  employment  grade.  Clearly  this 
will be a long -term project, which we will continue by encouraging women to apply for 
promotion and ensuring they get the mentoring and other support which will assist them 
in becoming successful. 
 
 
I  confirm  that  the  calculations  have  been  done  in  line  with  The  Equality  Act  2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Dick Barton 
 
HR Director 
Sogeti UK 
 
85 London Wall 
London EC2M 7AD 
 
www.uk.sogeti.com 

