West Midlands Police

2017
Gender Pay Gap Report

Message from the Chief Constable

West Midlands Police aims to ensure that people are treated equally, whether this is about the way we treat the public in the provision of our
services to them, or our officers in staff in the way they are treated at work.

Diversity and Inclusion is a key feature of our work, and this year for the first time we are publishing our Gender Pay gap in line with the new legal
requirement for all public sector bodies. We are pleased that our reported gender pay gap is almost half the national average.

We work very hard to have equal pay, through systems, processes and decision making across all sectors of our workforce. However we do have
a gender pay gap. The detail of this is provided in this report, but we have identified the main issues for this as being longer serving male officers
and staff in the higher two quartiles of the pay structure and a higher percentage of male staff employees in full time roles accessing additional
payments.

We know that working on these areas will take time, and there is no immediate quick fix. We are confident however that our future plans for
recruitment and resourcing, promotion and talent management and reviewing terms and conditions will incrementally narrow this gap, and ensure
a fairer future for all who work for us.

Chief Constable David Thompson

What is the Gender Pay gap?

The Gender Pay Gap is the way we express the difference between the average pay of men and women in all roles in 
the organisation. 

It is calculated using two methods of “average” pay across quartiles, 

Mean – the whole range expressed as an average and
Median – the mid point in the range

The way the gender pay gap is calculated is prescribed in the Gender Pay gap reporting Requirements 2017 so all 
organisations with over 250 employees report on data in the same way. This enables realistic comparisons across 
sectors and like organisations.

What is included in our calculations?

The calculation includes all elements of pay at a point in time – this year for the month 
preceding 31st March 2017.

We include:

• Basic Pay

• Overtime

• Allowances such as shift payments and weekend work

• Additional payments such as honoraria or language skills payments

West Midlands Police do not pay any bonus payments so there are none to include in our 
data.

Hourly Rate average gender pay gap

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

Officers

Staff

PCSOs

All Employees

2.39%  

10.53% 

0.79% 

10.67% 

1.29 

9.46% 

0.00% 

8.03% 

This means that women working in WMP 

have an hourly rate (£16.97) which is on average 8.03% less than men 
(£18.46) This is compared to the national (median) average of 18.03%*

* 2016 Annual Survey of Household Earnings 

Quartiles within West Midlands Police 

These charts show the number of men and women in each quartile of our pay structure

39.2%

60.7%

52.2%

52.2%

47.8%

1

2

1

2

30.7%

69.2%

29.5%

70.4%

1

2

1

2

Understanding our data

These quartile graphs show that Q1 is heavily 
populated by women, whilst Q3 and Q4 are 
more heavily populated by men. Q2 is almost an 
even split. 

This means that there are more men than 
women in senior posts in the organisation. 

Approaches such as “Step up” promotion 
processes for women, more flexible approaches 
to working in all roles across WMP and 
mentoring and coaching support for women 
into leadership roles are all designed to improve 
the ratio of women in senior roles in the 
organisation.

Our Results

Understanding  our data

Men have traditionally dominated the Police 
workforce, and this is supported by the 
figures at WMP, where 57.8% of the total 
workforce are male.
The main reasons for the Gender Pay Gap at 
WMP are:

There are more men than women in higher 

graded / paid positions, 

Within all ranks / grades men typically have 

longer service and are therefore higher up 
the pay range for the grade and 

More men are full time and therefore have 

greater access to additional payments such 
as weekend and shift working, standby 
payments.

Gender Breakdown

31.7%

37.4%

68.3%

62.6%

PSCOs

51.3%

48.7%

42.1%

57.9%

Positive Approaches

As clear positives we have some mechanisms which have meant our reported Gender Pay Gap is lower
than the national average. These include:

Job evaluation schemes which are free from gender bias.

Recruitment policies which are free from gender bias and support women into senior roles

A positive action approach to women in all roles across WMP enabling them to access support and help

to stay in work with changes to personal circumstances and promotion.

Senior leaders who act as role models in in the organisation for aspiring future women leaders.

Best Practice in Action

Police Community Support Officers

0% gender pay gap
Equal numbers of men and women in post
Appointed to set salary determined by requirements of 
the role and skills, not length of service or other criteria

Pay differentials – the wider picture

The Gender Pay Reporting Legislation only requires us to report on gender. We recognise however that we have a
diverse and varied workforce, and other diversity characteristics are an important part of our Diversity and Inclusion
work.

Workforce declaring an ethnicity 

(basic) pay gap 

10.00%

8.00%

6.00%

4.00%

2.00%

0.00%

-2.00%

8.22%

2.28%

2.97%

1

2

3

-1.44%

4

Workforce declaring a disability 

(basic) pay gap

17.86%

9.82%

8.08%

1

2

3

4

-5.01%

20.00%

15.00%

10.00%

5.00%

0.00%

-5.00%

-10.00%

The figures above for ethnicity and disability show the effect grades and rank structures on groups with protected characteristics in
different areas of the workforce.

The biggest impact is within the police staff workforce, and is a result of the breadth of each pay grade and the number of grades with
no upward movement between grades (career progression) without promotion into a new role.

Developing our workforce

“The focus of the People and Organisational Development team for the next 3 years will be to embed principles of
diversity and inclusion in all of our activities, so that underrepresented groups can gain ground and operate at a
level playing field in the near future.

Developing the talent of our female workforce is critical to ensuring we have a balance of skills, attributes and
capabilities to help us achieve our ambitious plans for the future.

We have a clear programme of talent management activities over the next two years which will support and nurture
our future female leaders as well as those with other protected characteristics we see at a disadvantage.

This includes coaching and mentoring, personal effectiveness,
preparedness programmes.”

female leaders and “step up” promotion

People and Organisational Development
Rebecca Davis, Assistant Director, 

How we will deliver change for the future

“Within WMP we aim to foster an inclusive culture where all colleagues can
succeed on merit and are rewarded appropriately.

As our D & I strategy progresses we will create an environment where our
female colleagues are able to make the choices they want to around career
and personal life without detriment to their longer term earning potential.
In doing so we will build an organisation that is more representative of our
community at all levels and where all colleagues are remunerated fairly.”

“The Development and Performance Team are working through our learning
and development workshops and programmes to ensure that we provide
relevant role models that all staff groups can aspire to. This means that
development opportunities where we need to are delivered at times to suit
staff, but also encompasses the diverse needs and backgrounds of our staff,
whether it is about Gender, Race, Sexuality or disability.

We also want to ensure that managers are identifying, nurturing and
developing our most valuable resource; our staff. To support this vision we
see the journey towards authentic gender and pay equality is one which is
most effective when we do it collaboratively”.

Head of Diversity and Inclusion
Anthony Burnett

Head of Performance and Development
Elaine Clough

Committing to action

1. We will work with our   communities to make our workforce representative of the 

people we serve

2. We will embody the WMP values of fairness and respect in all our dealings with 

people including our workforce

3. We will review policies and practices to ensure they are free from conscious and 

unconscious bias, both in development and application

4. We will put development activities in place which  empower all our officers and 

staff to be the best they can regardless of gender, ethnicity or disability.

5. We will continue to monitor protected characteristics to measure the effectiveness 

of all our current and future initiatives.

