    Gartner U.K. 2018 Gender Pay Gap Report  Actions we’re taking  Our approach to pay  Attracting top talent is fundamental to our long-term growth. While women comprise 42% of our associates in the U.K., only 20% of our upper quartile positions are held by women. To address this, wherever possible, we ensure at least two female candidates are shortlisted in the recruitment process for senior positions. And because of our sustained long-term growth, we’ll have plenty of new roles and promotion opportunities that will help us close our gender pay gap over time.

For every position we fill, we offer fair and equitable pay and a competitive benefits program with recently enhanced maternity benefits, adoption support and parental leave policies that are designed to accommodate different life stages for women.  About Gartner  Numbers at a glance  The U.K. is leading the way in requiring all organizations with more than 250 employees to publicly share their gender pay gap. We are committed to going beyond this requirement by proactively examining gender pay gap data in all of our key markets worldwide. We’ll use this data to drive global initiatives that will ultimately benefit all women at Gartner, while reducing our companywide gender pay gap.  © 2018 Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Gartner is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. or its affiliates. 
For more information, email info@gartner.com or visit gartner.com. PR_392953    Gartner’s sustained organizational growth provides a wealth of career opportunities for our associates. As part of the annual talent review and succession planning process, our executive leadership team assesses the gender diversity of our talent pool throughout the organization. Diverse talent, including emerging female leaders, is identified and will be supported with a dedicated leadership development program to position them for future senior leadership roles.

Gartner acquired CEB in April 2017. We are taking a “best of both” approach to learn from CEB’s recruiting, talent development and retention strategies to ensure women are represented in senior leadership roles. As the integration of CEB continues, we’ll examine these activities in greater detail to determine which ones to adopt enterprisewide to increase the representation of women in senior leadership roles in our combined organization.  Starting in 2018, U.K. organizations with more than 250 employees are required to report on their gender pay gap. Gartner is one of approximately 9,000 U.K. employers reporting data this year. 

At Gartner, men and women in equivalent roles delivering similar 
performance are paid equally. This is at the core of our pay-for-
performance strategy. However, we do have a gender pay gap driven 
by a disproportionate number of men in senior roles, which tend to have higher salaries. 

Consistent with our values and commitment to diversity, we will close the gender pay gap over time. Increasing the number of women in leadership roles throughout our company is critical in this effort. 

Addressing this disparity is beneficial to women and society as a whole. 
It also makes compelling business sense. 

Gartner research shows that, in most organizations, there is a significant 
drop in the number of women transitioning to middle-management positions. This leads to a disproportionately lower percentage of women progressing to senior leadership positions. Gartner research recommends addressing four key challenges when taking action on the gender pay gap: 

1. Lack of insight into the extent of the gender pay gap
2. Unconscious bias by pay decision makers
3. Salary offers don’t consider the potential presence of past bias
4. Pay gap is only a symptom of larger workplace challenges for women   Actions we’re taking   We are committed to improving the resources and support available to 
our associates that foster an inclusive culture at Gartner. We recently established a dedicated Inclusion & Engagement team focused on supporting the recruitment, development and advancement of diverse talent. Among the first steps taken by this team have been to empower global Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which include executive leadership sponsors, to increase internal visibility and drive active participation. The Women at Gartner ERG is our largest group with 
more than 1,600 members. It focuses on supporting women through leadership development, education, networking and community-building.

We are committed to fostering an environment of exceptional professional development to ensure each of us can achieve our full potential. Our 
gender pay gap numbers show us that we need to continuously improve 
in our actions to make a meaningful difference to women in the workplace at Gartner. We know this will take considerable effort and time, but we equally recognize the tremendous benefit this will provide to women, 
our business and society as a whole.   “  Robin Kranich  “     We are following our own advice. We continue to work on a range of key initiatives to increase the number of women in leadership roles and, as this improves over time, close the gender pay gap:     Gartner, Inc. (NYSE: IT), is the world’s leading research and advisory company and a member of the S&P; 500. We equip business leaders with indispensable insights, advice and tools to achieve their mission-critical priorities today and build the successful organizations of tomorrow.

Our unmatched combination of expert-led, practitioner-sourced and data-driven research steers clients toward the right decisions on the issues that matter most. We’re trusted as an objective resource and critical partner by more than 12,000 organizations in more than 100 countries — across all major functions, in every industry and enterprise size.

To learn more about how we help decision makers fuel the future of business, visit gartner.com.  Fostering an inclusive culture   Our commitment to embrace 
gender diversity to get better, 
faster and stronger, every year  Building the right foundation  Numbers at a glance  Attracting top talent  Consistent with 
our values and commitment to diversity, we 
will close the gender pay gap over time.”  Executive Vice President, 
Human Resources
Gartner  Gartner’s sustained organizational growth provides 
a wealth of career opportunities for our associates.”  Our approach to pay  Growing with Gartner  Gartner is committed to diversity, inclusion and engagement across all aspects of our business.

Our consistent track record of double-digit growth is fueled by our people. We foster an environment of exceptional professional development to ensure each of us can reach our full potential. This includes embracing gender diversity and actively removing all barriers to support inclusion, engagement and growth at Gartner. 

We are a multicultural, global business, serving clients in more than 100 countries around the world. Our teams are composed of individuals of different genders, geographies, religions, cultures, ethnicities, races, 
sexual orientations, abilities and generations. We are united in our mission and we work together to solve problems. In doing so, we operate at the highest ethical standards, with respect for all of our associates, clients 
and communities.

Our people are at the heart of our success. As we grow, we’ll continue to embrace inclusion and engagement as an opportunity to get better, stronger, faster — year after year.         