 
 
Mercedes AMG HPP Gender Pay Gap Figures 
 

In 2017, it became a legal requirement for all UK companies with a workforce of more than 250 people to measure and 

publish their gender pay gap.   

 

The  rationale  behind  this  government  initiative  is  to  build  greater  awareness  of  gender  imbalance  within  UK  industry 

and to encourage companies to consider ways of reducing disparity.   

 

This  is  particularly  relevant  for  the  engineering  and  manufacturing  sectors.  2017  surveys  indicate  only  11%  of  the 

engineering  workforce  in  the  UK  is  female.    Whilst  this  is  a  positive  change  from  the  9%  in  2015,  the  UK  still  has  the 

lowest percentage of female engineering professionals in Europe. 

 

In  2017  50%  of  all  GCSE  Physics  students  were  girls,  but  that  becomes  only  around  20%  at  A  Level  and  this  has  not 

changed  in  25  years.    This  shortage  of  female  students  translates  through  to  higher  education,  where  only  15.1%  of 

engineering undergraduates in 2017 were women.  [Source: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics]   

 

HPP welcomes the Gender Pay initiative.  We are acutely aware that industries such as engineering and manufacturing 

have traditionally had smaller proportions of female employees in the upper pay quartile, which inevitably creates the 

largest average pay gaps.    

 

When discussing this subject, it is first very important to explain that the gender pay gap is the difference between the 

average (mean and median) earnings of men and women, expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings.   The gender 

pay  gap  is  distinctly  different  from  the  legal  requirement  under  the  Equality  Act  to  pay  men  and  women  equally  for 

work rated as equivalent.  

 

Here  at  HPP,  we  are  committed  to  and  confident  that  we  offer  equal  pay  to  men  and  women  for  work  rated  as 

equivalent; to ensure this we routinely review our pay.  

HPP’s Gender Pay Gap Figures  
 

•  Based on a snapshot of data from April 2017 women working at HPP earn 26.1% less per hour than men (mean) 
and  17.4%  less  per  hour  (median).    This  difference  is  driven  by  the  fact  that  there  are  more  men  in  senior, 

higher-paid roles within HPP. 
 

•  Our pay quartile data shows that HPP’s population is made up predominantly of men in all four quartiles. This 

data largely demonstrates the reason for our gender pay gap.  
 

 

MEN 

WOMEN 

 

S
E
L
I
T
R
A
U
Q
Y
A
P

 

UPPER QUARTILE 

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE 

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE 

LOWER QUARTILE 

98.7% 

93.5% 

94.8% 

86.3% 

1.3% 

6.5% 

5.2% 

13.7% 

 

Overall HPP’s workforce is made up of 6.7% women.  This is not uncommon in the engineering profession as a 
whole, where women make up only 11% of employees.  [Source: http://www.wes.org.uk/content/wesstatistics]   

 
 

 

 

•  Our bonus pay gap is 52.2% mean, and 7.9% median which is driven by the number of men in senior roles within 

HPP.  

•  All male and female employees who were employed on our bonus payment dates in November and December 
received  a  bonus.    Using  the  reference  period  for  bonus  payments  (March  16  –  April  17)  94.3%  of  men  and 

97.7% of women received a bonus, meaning that 5.7% of male and 2.3% of female employees did not receive a 

bonus as they were not employed at the time. 

Together with the rest of the engineering industry, we recognise that we have a shortage of women in senior roles.  This 

is not where we want to be and we would like to improve our position. 

We  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  no  employee  receives  less  favourable  treatment,  because  of  their  gender,  age, 

disability  and  other  protected  characteristics.    We  will  also  continue  to  actively  support  and  develop  our  talented 

employees, as well as trying to increase the proportion of women working at HPP, because we believe this will create a 

stronger and more capable organisation for the future. 

I confirm that the data reported is accurate. 

 

Andy Cowell, Managing Director 

 

  

