Gender Pay Gap 
report 2017

Lowell UK

©2018 Lowell

Gender Pay Gap report 2017

It’s important to us that we treat everyone fairly and that how we reward our colleagues is based on 
how they do their job and the kind of job it is, nothing else.  It’s also important that opportunities to 
progress within or join the company are based only on aptitude, skills and experience.  

We want a team that reflects the best of our communities and the diversity within them.  

We’ve got work to do to, but we will get there with everyone playing their part.  

What are we reporting?
>

In the UK, we are required to report Gender Pay Gap details for all our companies with more than 250 
people (Lowell Financial and Fredrickson [Freds]) – our ‘statutory disclosure’. To provide a clear 
picture of pay within the region, we have included information on Lowell Solicitors within Total UK 
numbers, which are in addition to what is required by legislation.

> The reporting regulations require us to use data for the pay period including 5 April 2017 to calculate 
the Gender Pay Gap for all women and men employed at 5 April 2017. This includes basic salary and 
several other elements, including bonus payments and allowances, and is shown pro-rata to hours 
worked. 

> The bonus calculation uses details of all bonus payments received in the 12 months prior to the 5 April 

2017 for all women and men employed at 5 April 2017.

Our UK Gender Pay Gap figures

WHAT IS A ‘GENDER PAY 
GAP’?

This measures the pay 
difference between men 
and women overall, 
based on average hourly 
pay. It is solely about 
gender. It doesn’t 
include any personal 
characteristics that may 
affect pay such as length 
of service, experience or 
performance.

It doesn’t measure Equal 
Pay - which is  the pay 
difference between men 
and women who carry 
out the same job, similar 
jobs or work of equal 
value. 

WHY IS THERE A ‘GENDER 
PAY GAP’ AT LOWELL?

The gender split by job 
level shows we have 
more men than women 
in 3 most senior levels -
Executive, Level 1 and 
Level 2. This is the 
main driver of the 
gender pay gap at 
Lowell UK.

GENDER BREAKDOWN BY LOWELL JOB LEVEL

* Includes anyone who was employed as at 5 April 2017 and received full pay in that period. 
Anyone who received reduced pay, including reasons like paternity/maternity, absence, has 
been excluded from this data. 

Our UK companies’ Gender Pay 
Gap 

Statutory disclosure

Lowell has two legal 
entities in the UK with 
250 or more colleagues. 
Under the Gender Pay 
Gap regulations we must 
report data for each, 
which is shown on this 
page.

Declaration

I confirm that Lowell’s 
Gender Pay Gap 
calculations are correct 
and meet the 
requirements of the 
regulations. The details, 
calculations and data 
reported here have been 
reviewed by the Lowell 
People Team, who have 
confirmed they comply 
with the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 
2017.

Mike Lynn-Jones
UK HR Director &
Group Head of Reward

Gender Pay Gap report 2017

Understanding the Gender Pay Gap in Lowell

> To help us understand why we had a Gender Pay Gap, we looked at our gender breakdown by job
level. This shows that there are more men than women in the top 3 levels of our organisation -
Executive, Level 1 and Level 2. Having more men in senior roles is the main driver of the gender
pay gap at Lowell UK.

> Our aim is to always get the best person for the job - irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin or

any other factor that has no bearing on their ability to do it.

> Our approach to pay and reward ensures that any pay differences are based on valid reasons (e.g.

not gender). It’s always been that way, long before these legal requirements for reporting.

> We encourage applications from all backgrounds. Recruiting managers are provided with

‘unconscious bias training’ to help them make the right and fair recruitment choices.

> We are currently providing Executive coaching to support career progression for women, and 

provide equal opportunities to everyone in terms of coaching, networking and mentoring.

> In the past 12 months, 4 women have joined our senior team (Level 1 or above). Of the 11

positions on our Group Executive three are women; all reporting directly to our Group CEO.

Gender Pay Gap report 2017

Understanding the six Gender Pay Gap measures

Companies are required to report on the following six measures:

1. Mean Gender Pay Gap – this is calculated by adding together all earnings paid to women, taking 
the average and then doing the same for men’s earnings. The difference between the two averages 
is then shown as a percentage of men’s earnings.

2. Median Gender Pay Gap – this is determined by ranking in order all the earnings paid to women, 

identifying the amount that is in the middle of the range and then doing the same for men’s 
earnings. The difference between the two is then shown as a percentage of men’s earnings.

3. Mean Gender Bonus Gap – this is calculated by adding together all bonuses paid to women, 

taking the average and then doing the same for bonuses paid to men. The difference between the 
two averages is then shown as a percentage of the figure for men’s bonus. 

4. Median Gender Bonus Gap – this is determined by ranking in order all the bonuses paid to 

women, identifying the amount that is in the middle of the range and then doing the same for 
men’s bonuses. The difference between the two is then shown as a percentage of men’s bonus.

5. The proportions of men and women who received a bonus 

6. The proportions of men and women in different pay bands. This is worked out by looking at 

all the hourly rates we pay, ranking them, then dividing them equally into four equal sections 
(highest quartile to lowest quartile) and counting the men and women in each. This gives a view of 
the spread of hourly pay within our organisation.

©2018 Lowell
Lowell UK
Ellington House
9 Savannah Way
Leeds Valley Park West
Leeds
LS10 1AB

