           Current share price: 20/04/2018    183.50  Data is delayed by 20 minutes and is in local exchange time  View LSE chart     Home  AIM Rule 26  Company Information  Securities  Directors  Committees  Corporate Governance  Report and Accounts  Regulatory Announcements  Shareholder Documents  Constitutional Documents  Admission Document  Advisors     Welcome to MS INTERNATIONAL plc  MS INTERNATIONAL plc is a public company quoted on the London Stock Exchange - AIM market and comprises four diverse operating divisions, 'Defence'; 'Forgings', 'Petrol Station Superstructures' and 'Petrol Station Branding', each holding a leading position in it's specialist markets.    MSI-Defence Systems Ltd.  Salhouse Road, Norwich, NR7 9AY England  Design, manufacture and service of defence equipment. www.msi-dsl.com    MSI-Forks Ltd.  Balby Carr Bank, Doncaster, DN4 8DH England  Manufacture of fork-arms for the fork lift truck, construction, agricultural and quarrying equipment industries. www.msi-forks.com    MSI-Forks Inc.  1298 Galleria Boulevard, Rock Hill, SC 29730 USA  Manufacture of fork-arms for the fork lift truck, construction, agricultural and quarrying equipment industries. www.msi-forks.com    MSI-Forks Garfos Industriais Ltda.  Rua Professor Campos de Oliveira, 310 São Paulo Brazil  Manufacture of fork-arms for the fork lift truck, construction, agricultural and quarrying equipment industries. www.msi-forks.com.br    MSI-Quality Forgings Ltd.  Balby Carr Bank, Doncaster, DN4 8DH England  Manufacture of open die forgings.  www.msi-forge.com    Global-MSI plc  Balby Carr Bank, Doncaster, DN4 8DH England  Design, manufacture and construction of petrol station superstructures. www.global-msi.com    Global-MSI bv  De Hoef 8 5311 GH Gameren The Netherlands  Design, manufacture and construction of petrol station superstructures. www.global-msi.nl    Global-MSI Sp. z o.o.  Ul. Działowskiego 13, 30-339 Krakow Poland  Design, manufacture and construction of petrol station superstructures. www.global-msi.pl    Petrol Sign bv  De Hoef 8, 5311 GH Gameren, The Netherlands  Design, restyling, production and installation of the complete appearance of petrol station superstructures and forecourt. www.petrol-sign.com    Petrol Sign GmbH  Osterriede 3 30827 Garbsen Berenbostel Germany  Design, restyling, production and installation of the complete appearance of petrol station superstructures and forecourt. www.petrol-sign.com    Petrol Sign Ltd.  Balby Carr Bank, Doncaster DN4 8DH England  Design, restyling, production and installation of the complete appearance of petrol station superstructures and forecourt. www.petrol-sign.com     Contact: David Kirkup, Company Secretary at d.kirkup@msiplc.com     