 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

December 2017 

 

 

 

 

Foreword 

 

Wolverhampton Homes manages and look after more than 23,000 homes on behalf 
of The City of Wolverhampton Council. 

We’re an Arm’s Length Management Organisation (ALMO) which was setup in 2005. 

We love our city and we’re here to help provide good quality homes and great 
customer service for our tenants and leaseholders. We’re passionate about what we 
do – and we care about our city’s future. 

Since 2005 we’ve been making improvements to more than 22,000 local homes. 
That was all part of our Decent Homes project which has saw us fit thousands of new 
kitchens and bathrooms and which made thousands of homes across the city more 
energy efficient. We finished that project in 2015 - but we’ve got some really exciting 
plans in place to carry on improving homes for years to come. 

We were one of the first ALMOs in the country to be given a three-star ‘excellent’ 
company rating (Audit Commission, 2010) as well as being listed in the Sunday 
Times Top 100 places to work in the not-for-profit sector for four consecutive years 
and the Stonewall Top 100 employers in 2017. 

This is the first year that we have reported on our gender pay gap and we will 
continue to do so.  

Our gender pay gap report suggests that while we can be satisfied that our gender 
pay gap is at 17% is below the national average, the quartile data shows that we still 
need to do more in some areas to reduce the gap, such as women in our trade 
workforce and in senior roles in the organisation.  

We are an equal pay employer at Wolverhampton Homes and ensure that we do not 
engage in practices that breach equal pay legislation. 

 

 

I confirm that the data published is accurate. 

 

 

Lesley Roberts 
Chief Executive 
December 2017 

 

 

 

 

Background 

Parliamentary approval of the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public 
Authorities) Regulations 2017 brought into effect a requirement for organisations with 
250 or more employees to report publicly every year the differences in the aggregate 
pay and bonuses of men and women.  

The issue of equal pay and the gender pay gap are often confused. While the former 
concerns pay differences between individuals or groups performing the same or 
similar work, the gender pay gap is concerned with differences in the average 
earnings of men and women, regardless of their role or seniority. It is, therefore, a 
broader measure capturing not simply any equal pay issues within an organisation 
but also any pay inequalities resulting from differences in the sorts of jobs performed 
by men and women and the gender composition of the workforce by seniority. 

The Office for the National Statistics, basing its calculations on data from the Annual  
Survey of Hours and Earnings, put the overall gender pay gap for all employees in 
the UK in 2016 at a median of 18.1%. That is to say, women typically earned around 
one-fifth less than men. 
  

Causes of Gender Pay Gap 

The causes of the gender pay gap are many and varied. Paying men and women  
differently for the same or equivalent work has been unlawful for decades. Although it 
does still happen, it is not considered a major factor in explaining the gender pay 
gap, and an employer that has completely eliminated unequal pay may still have a 
wide gender pay gap. 
 
An organisation with a higher proportion of men in senior roles and women in junior 
roles will have a gender pay gap. So will an organisation with a higher proportion of 
men than women in better paid functions such as IT. 
 
Women also make up three quarters of the part time workforce, whose hourly pay 
rates tend to be significantly lower than those of full time workers. In addition, women 
are much more likely to take time out of the labour market for family reasons, slowing 
the pace at which they typically progress to more senior and better paid roles. 
 
Wolverhampton Homes is an equal pay employer and we ensure that we do not 
engage in practices that breach equal pay legislation.  
 

Metrics required to be reported on by the legislation 
 
The regulations require organisations with 250 or more employees to publish details 
of the gender pay gap for their organisation as it is in the pay period in which April 5 
falls in each year from 2017 onwards. 
 
 

Employers are required to report on: 
 

a.  The difference in the mean pay of full-pay men and women, expressed 

as a percentage 

b.  The difference in median pay of full-pay men and women, expressed as 

a percentage 

c.  The difference in mean bonus pay of men and women, expressed as a 

percentage 

d.  The proportion of men and women who receive bonus pay 
e.  The proportion of full-pay men and women in each of four quartile pay 

bands  
 

Wolverhampton Homes do not have any employees who receive bonuses so will only 
publish data for a, b, and e. 
 
The data to be published is at appendix 1. The figures have been reached using the 
mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay gap reporting legislation. 
 
The report must appear on Wolverhampton Home’s website, be accessible and once  
 published must remain there for at least three years. 
 
Comparison of Wolverhampton Homes’ Gender Pay gap to national statistics 
 
The national average (using the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings figures), 
states that the gender pay gap is currently around 18%. Wolverhampton Homes’ 
gender pay gap is currently 17% so within the national average. 
 
Whilst it is recognised that the gap is 17%, we also recognise that there are two 
areas where there are gaps, the biggest within the quartiles is where the majority of 
the workforce is male and is predominantly the craft workforce. The other area is 
women in senior roles. 
 
Wolverhampton Homes has been taking action for some time to reduce the gender 
pay gap and to encourage females into construction by providing various 
employability programmes and management development programmes such as; 
 

•  Women into Construction 
• 
• 
• 

Aspire Management Development programme 
Shadowing/coaching/mentoring 
Employability programmes leading to traineeships or apprenticeships 

  
Wolverhampton Homes also attend career and jobs fair, promoting women in  
construction, have work experience placements, and the Skills and Enterprise 
Manager is an Enterprise Adviser to a local school. 
 
Wolverhampton Homes will continue to engage in events and activities to promote  
and encourage females into construction and by doing this we hope to see a change 
in the gender pay gap which will be reported on next year. 

APPENDIX 1 

WOLVERHAMPTON HOMES 

 

Gender Pay Gap Metrics                                        

 

Date of data – 31 March 2017 

Total Employees = 671 

Total Male = 446 

Total Female = 225 

 

Organisations Mean Gender Pay Gap 

 

 

Male Mean hourly rate 
Female Mean hourly rate 
Difference 
Organisations Mean Gender Pay Gap 

£14.53 
£12.77 
£1.76 
12% 

Methodology; 

A report was run by payroll for all employees who received a payment in March 2017 
including: basic pay, essential car user allowance, first aid payment, translator 
payment, call out pay, standby allowances. 

A combined hourly rate for each person was to be calculated. 

Once this had been calculated, the data was sorted into male/female to calculate the 
mean hourly rate. 

Mean hourly rate = total of the hourly rates divided by the number of male/female in 
the pay period. 

Organisation Mean Gender pay gap is dividing the difference in the hourly rate by the 
male hourly rate x 100.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Organisations Median Gender Pay gap 

 

 

Male Median hourly rate 
Female Median hourly rate 
Difference 
Organisations Median Gender Pay Gap 

£14.60 
£12.13 
£2.47 
17% 

Methodology: 

Using the male/female hourly rates, find the middle earner i.e males total = 444, find 
the hourly rate for the male ranked at 222. Females total = 221, find the female 
hourly rate ranked at 110. 

Organisation Median Gender pay gap is dividing the difference in the hourly rate by 
the male hourly rate x 100. 

 

Organisation Salary Quartiles. 

 

 

 

Salary Quartile 1 
Total 
Male 
Female 
 

Salary Quartile 2 
Total 
Male 
Female 
 

Salary Quartile 3 
Total 
Male 
Female 
 

 

 

 

167 
80 
87 

 

168 
88 
80 

 

168 
149 
19 

 

 
 
Proportion of males 
Proportion of females 
 

 
 
Proportion of males 
Proportion of females 
 

 
 
Proportion of males 
Proportion of females 
 

% 

% 

% 

 

48 
52 

 

 

52 
48 

 

 

89 
11 

 

High proportion of males in quartile 3 as this is where the majority of the male craft 
workforce are. 

Salary Quartile 4 
Total 
Male 
Female 
 

 

 
High proportion of males in senior roles and residue of the male craft workforce. 

 

 

168 
129 
39 

 
 
Proportion of males 
Proportion of females 
 

% 

 

77 
23 

Methodology; 

Sort whole data into a ranking with the lowest hourly rate first to the highest at the 
end. 

Divide the total number of employees by 4 to identify the numbers in each banding. 

Need to adjust the bandings if there is a disproportionate number of males/females in 
different bandings with the same hourly rate. Equal it out. 

For each quartile calculate the male/female percentage. 

 

 

