Gender Pay Reporting 
 
From  April  2017,  all  UK  companies  with  over  250  employees  are  required  to  report  annually  on  their 
gender  pay  gap.  The  gender  pay  gap  is  defined  as  the  difference  in  the  average  earning  of  men  and 
women  over  a  set  period  of  time  to  5th  April  2017,  regardless  of  their  role  or  seniority  level  within  the 
business.   
 
What is included in the calculations? 
 
The pay calculations include basic pay as at 5th April 2017 including car allowances paid in the pay period 
covering 5th April 2017. 
 
The  bonus  calculations  cover  bonus  pay  for  the  year  to  5th  April  2017  including  commission  and  profit 
sharing. 
 
How is it calculated? 
 
All  the  figures  set  out  in  this  report  have  been  calculated  using  the  standard  methodologies  used  in  the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
The mean is the difference between male and female hourly pay rates and is calculated by adding up all 
the fully paid employees of each gender separately and dividing the total by the number of employees of 
that gender. The mean hourly rate for women is then subtracted from the mean hourly rate for men and 
the difference is then divided by the male hourly rate, which is then multiplied by 100 to give a percentage. 
The mean gender pay gap is calculated in hourly pay as a percentage of the male pay rate. 
 
The median is calculated by listing all the hourly pay rates for male employees from highest to lowest and 
selecting  the  middle  hourly  pay  rate.  The  same  list  approach  is  applied  to  female  hourly  pay.  The 
difference between these median hourly pay rates is then expressed as a percentage of the male hourly 
pay rate. 
 
The  mean  and  median  approach  is  then  similarly  applied  to  compare  bonuses  paid  over  the  12-month 
period to 5th April 2017. The proportion of men and women receiving bonus pay is also detailed. 
 
To assess the pay quartiles, all the pay rates of all employees are listed together and then split into four 
quarters. 
 
Gender pay figures for Weston Homes Plc 

 

•  The mean gender pay gap for Weston Homes Plc is 31.4%. 
•  The median gender pay gap for Weston Homes Plc is 26.7%. 
•  The mean gender bonus gap for Weston Homes Plc is 45.3%. 
•  The median gender bonus gap for Weston Homes Plc is 19.5%. 
•  The  proportion  of  male  employees  in  Weston  Homes  Plc  receiving  a  bonus  is  89.0%  and  the 

proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 87.4%. 
 

An  annual  bonus  was  paid  within  the  review  period  to  every  person  employed  and  not  under  notice  of 
leaving. A Christmas bonus was also awarded to every person employed and not under notice. During the 
period  the  only  employees  not  to  receive  a  bonus  were  those  that  commenced  employment  between 
Christmas and the review date of 5th April 2017. 
 

Pay Quartiles by Gender 
 
Each  quartile  contains  93  employees.  We  have  a  predominantly  male  population  with  78%  of  the  work-
force  at  the  time  of  calculating  the  gender  pay  figures  being  male.  Therefore,  only  a  figure  of  22%  of 
female  representation  in  each  quartile  is  achievable,  if  the  females  were  evenly  distributed  amongst  the 
quartile levels. 
 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

75.0% 

25.0% 

Lower quartile (Lowest) 

62.0% 

38.0% 

Lower middle quartile 

86.0% 

14.0% 

Upper middle quartile 

91.0% 

9.0% 

Upper quartile (Highest) 

A 

B 

C 

D 

 

What are the underlying causes of Weston Homes Plc’s gender pay gap? 
 
Weston  Homes  Plc.  are  committed  to  equal  opportunities  and  equal  treatment  for  all  employees 
regardless  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age  marriage  or  civil  partnership,  sexual  orientation,  gender 
reassignment or disability. All our employees undertake training in both Equality and Diversity.  
 
Under  the  law,  men  and  women  must  receive  equal  pay  for  the  same  or  broadly  similar  work.  We  can 
demonstrate  our  commitment  to  equal  pay;  however,  we  do  have  a  gender  pay  gap  according  to  the 
calculations specified by gender pay reporting. Weston Homes Plc carries out continuous pay and benefit 
reviews  and  is  confident  that  men  and  women  are  treated  equally  in  respect  of  pay,  benefits,  career 
opportunities  and  access  to  learning  and  development.  Our  gender  pay  gap  does  not  stem  from  paying 
men and woman differently for the same work but as a result of the roles in which men and women work 
within the business and the salaries attracted by those roles. The gender pay gap is a result of an industry 
where the majority of resources are in fact male. There are insufficient women considering careers within 
the  industry,  leading  to  fewer  applications  for  consideration  at  both  senior  and  professional  levels, 
resulting in a negative pay gap for both our company and the industry as a whole. 
 
How does Weston Homes Plc’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 
 
Our  gender  pay  gap  is  reflective  of  industry  norms  and  similar  to  many  of  our  peers.  The  under-
representation of women in the industry impacts all businesses in our sector. It is no secret, and this is the 
same  in  many  other  similar  industries,  that  the  property  and  construction  industry  suffers  from  female 
under-representation,  which  leads  to  being  particularly  pronounced  at  senior  levels.  Construction  is 
predominantly seen as a male industry and therefore the vast majority of available people are male. 
  
We welcome the new legislation as it will raise awareness of the representation of women, particularly in 
senior  roles,  within  the  industry.  There  needs  to  be  a  shift  in  social  attitudes  and  away  from  the  stereo-
typing  of  roles  in  the  industry  and  the  media,  together  with  a  huge  campaign  to  raise  awareness  of  the 
diversity of careers the industry has to offer, in order to attract more women.  
 
 

 

What is Weston Homes Plc doing to address its gender pay gap? 
 
Weston Homes Plc proactively seeks and encourages female trainees to apply for trainee programs, with 
an  aim  of  increasing  the  number  of  women  considering  careers  within  the  industry.  This  will  eventually 
help increase the number of women professionals available, which in years to come will help improve the 
gender pay gap as there will be more senior and professional women working at higher levels.  
 
Weston  Homes  Plc  are  actively  targeting  the  attraction  of  females  in  the  lead  up  to  the  next  intake  of 
trainees  and  are  developing  an  Early  Years  program,  dedicated  to  promoting  careers  in  our  sector  to 
young  people,  including  women  in  particular.    A  combination  of  assembly  talks,  careers  fairs,  work 
experience  placements,  open  days  and  encouragement  from  influential  women  in  our  business  are 
already  planned.  Weston  Homes  plc.  is  fully  committed  to  looking  at  ways  to  attract  more  women  into 
construction and will continue to looks at ways to improve this in the future. 
 
The  industry  faces  a  tough  challenge  to  attract  women  and  we  are  focused  on  playing  our  part  in 
addressing this. 
 
I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report for Weston Homes Plc is accurate and has 
been produced in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
 
 
Jane Stock, Organisational Development Director 

