 

Introduction 

Concept Life Sciences Analytical & Development Services Limited 

(Formerly Scientific Analysis Laboratories Limited) 

Gender Pay Gap Report April 2017 

Legislation introduced in April 2017 requires all legal entities of 250 or more employees to publish their 
gender pay gap. The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and women, 
expressed relative to men’s earnings.  For example, nationally women earn 18.4% less than men, so this 
would be reported as a gender mean pay gap of 18.4%.  Source: Office for National Statistics, 2017. 

The calculations that should be reported are set out below: 

The Mean Pay Gap is calculated by adding up the hourly pay of all the women in an organisation and dividing 
by the number of women, doing the same calculation for the men and comparing the two figures. 

The Median Pay Gap is calculated by finding the exact middle point between the lowest and highest paid 
woman in an organisation and the lowest and highest paid man and comparing the two figures. 

Pay Quartiles should also be reported, using hourly pay, quartiles divide the list of earners ordered from 
lowest to highest into four equal groups.  This shows where men and women are in the pay hierarchy. 

The Mean Bonus Gap, being the difference between bonus payments made to women and to men, expressed 
as a percentage of men’s bonus earnings. 

The Median Bonus Gap is calculated by finding the exact middle point between the lowest and highest paid 
bonus paid to eligible women and men, then comparing the two figures. 

The Bonus Proportions, the number of men receiving a bonus payment versus the proportion of women 
receiving a bonus payment. 

Our Statutory Disclosure at a glance  

This analysis is based on Scientific Analysis Laboratories Limited who on the 
5th April 2017 were the only legal entity within the Concept Life Sciences group 
to employ over 250 employees.  Our proportion of male and female employees 
on this date was:  

•  Women – 141 
•  Men – 170 
•  Total – 311 

 

 

Key Measures 

Mean Pay Gap 

Median Pay Gap 

-3.0% 

Mean Bonus Gap 

46.0% 

Median Bonus Gap 

 

 54% 

Bonus Proportion 
 

11.0% 

Difference 

Comments 

20.0% 

This  shows  that  the  gross  hourly  rate  of  pay  for  men  is  an 
average of 20% greater than women employees.  This is based 
on full salary data for all employees employed as at April 2017 
and so will be partly driven by the higher proportion of male 
employees. 
The mid point for the gross hourly rate of pay is 3% higher for 
women. 
 
This  refers  to  the bonus amount  paid  to  male  and  female 
relevant  employees  during  the  12  months  prior  to  05  April 
2017, expressed as a percentage of the bonus pay paid to male 
relevant employees.  Therefore the value in total paid to male 
employees was 46% higher.  This is largely because more male 
employees  were  employed  in  roles  eligible  for  a  bonus 
payment at that time, than female employees. 
The mid point for the value of bonuses paid is 54% higher paid 
to male employees versus females as a result of those receiving 
a bonus being in more senior roles.   
This  shows  the  proportion  of  male  eligible  employees  who 
received a bonus was 11% higher than the proportion of female 
eligible employees. 

Proportion of females and males in each quartile band: 

Quartiles (Gross Hourly 

Rate of Pay) 

Lower Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Upper Quartile 

Male 

Count 

48 

39 

35 

48 

% 

62.34% 

50.65% 

45.45% 

60.00% 

Female 

Count 

29 

38 

42 

32 

% 

37.66% 

49.35% 

54.55% 

40.00% 

Total 

Count 

77 

77 

77 

80 

 

Understanding our gap 

Within the business formerly known as Scientific Analysis Laboratories Limited we have a mean gender pay 
gap of 20%. This is slightly higher than the UK average mean pay gap of 18.4%.  Source: Office for National 
Statistics, 2017. 

In the science and engineering sector, the mean average gender pay gap is 20%.  See the following link for 
more 
https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg23731670-100-how-the-gender-pay-gap-
permeates-science-and-engineering 

information: 

Rather than simply publish the required data, we have chosen to examine our gender pay gap to determine 
the reasons for it and what we can do to address it.  The analysis of our gender pay gap figures tells us that, 
rather than being driven by a pay issue, our mean pay gap is driven by the structure of our workforce for the 
following reasons: 

•  A history of fewer women than men undertaking the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & 
Maths) subjects in higher education, leading to fewer women than men in scientific positions.  Every 
two years the Royal Society of Chemistry carries out a members’ survey to collect reward data.  In 
2017, over 6,000 members responded and the sample was 72% male and 28% female.  Source: Royal 
Society of Chemistry – Diversity landscape of the chemical sciences.   

•  Women hold fewer senior positions within the company than men.  This is evidenced by a recent 
study that shows the average proportion of women in Science & Engineering management roles is 
15%. 
https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/resources/2017/10/women-in-stem-workforce-2017  
Similarly  our  bonus  gap  is  driven  by  fewer  female  employees  in  senior  positions  and  business 
development roles where higher bonuses were paid for the 12 month period prior to the 5th April 
2017. 

 

Action 

Whilst the results are in line with gender pay gap and bonus gaps in the sector in which we operate, we are 
committed to improving our gender pay and bonus gaps.  The following steps are already in place to ensure, 
as far as possible, that these gaps can be narrowed.  As part of a prior review of HR practices we identified 
that a gender pay gap would occur and we recognised that processes needed to be implemented to address 
this.  Such actions include: 

•  New Family Friendly policies offering enhanced maternity pay, paternity pay and parental leave were 

introduced in 2016 as well as an updated flexible working policy. 

•  Our internal Management Development Programme has seen an increase in female participants.  In 
2016 & 2017 female participants accounted for 47% increasing to 56% for our planned 2018 cohorts.  
This is a six month programme aimed at developing our next level of management.  

•  We have a rigorous recruitment process to ensure that our recruitment is free from bias and provide 

training and toolkits for recruiting managers. 

•  We  regularly  conduct  independent  industry  salary  benchmarking  exercises  and  monitor  pay  to 

identify pay differences taking action where appropriate. 

 

•  We increased the number of females recruited into senior management positions in 2017, examples 

include Group Head of Quality Assurance, Head of Program Management and Site Director roles. 

•  We  have  formed  links  with  local  colleges  and  schools  to  encourage  female  students  into  STEM 

careers. 

Furthermore we can confirm that our full Group results are in representative of the results outlined in this 
report and we plan to report all Concept Life Sciences companies as required in 2019. 
 

Declaration 
 
We declare that Concept Life Sciences Analytical & Development Services Limited (formerly Scientific Analysis 
Laboratories Limited) gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.   
 
Paul McCluskey  

Sarah Taylor 

 

 

 

 

 

President 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Chief People Officer 

 

