Roke 2017 Gender Pay Report 

Gender Pay legislation requires employers with 250 or more 
employees to publish statistics to show the ‘pay gap’ 
between male and female employees. 

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

Foreword

Roke engineer solutions that safeguard and protect in an uncertain and increasingly connected world. We do this by investing in 
excellent people who take pride in their work  and promote an open, friendly and trusted environment where their abilities will 
be recognised and rewarded.

We recognise that our culture must be one that allows our people to be 
themselves and excel, regardless of gender. 

Whilst we are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the 
same role at Roke, we do have a gender pay gap. The reasons for this are: 
•

We have fewer women in senior roles
We have a larger proportion of women working in our support 
departments
There are fewer women across our industry working in STEM (science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics) related roles from which we 
can recruit.

•

•

Our gender pay gap therefore reflects wider, national issues. In the UK, only 
25% of STEM graduates are women, and for engineering and technology 
degrees this figure is just 14%. 

We are working hard to narrow our gender pay gap and reporting annually 
allows us to address the reasons behind it.

We support the UK Government’s leadership in addressing gender inequality, 
and can confirm that information contained herein is accurate and has been 
produced in accordance with the guidance on managing gender pay developed 
by the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (Acas).

Re-balancing the gender pay gap will take time and we have a responsibility to 
enable all our employees reach their full potential by ensuring all our talent 
acquisition and management practices are inclusive.  We will strengthen our 
internal networks to eliminate any unconscious bias in our systems, processes 
and policies and inspire everyone at Roke to foster a culture of inclusion and 
diversity at every level. We will also continue to tackle the root causes of gender 
imbalance by sponsoring and engaging in STEM programmes for women. 

David Cole
Managing Director

Charmain Browning
Head of Employee 
Engagement & Talent

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

Lowest

Paid

The 

Median

Highest 

Paid

What is a Gender Pay Gap?

A gender pay gap shows the difference in the average hourly pay 
between all men and women in a workforce. 

If all female employees and separately all male employees were listed 
in numerical order of pay level, the median gender pay gap would 
compare the pay of the female in the middle of such a list with the pay 
of the middle male. 

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in the average hourly 
rate of pay between men and women. 

A gender pay gap differs from an equal pay gap. In the UK, it has been a 
legal requirement for companies to pay men and women equally for 
doing work of equal value since 1970 under The Equal Pay Act. 

Men and women at Roke are paid fairly and equally for doing the same 
job. For the past several years and every year, we have benchmarked 
the base pay of all our roles, both externally and internally. 

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

Our Results

The data illustrates the gender pay gap for our employees on 5th April 2017 

Gender Pay Gap  

Median Mean

36.70% 33.90%

The median gender pay gap is the difference in pay between the middle 
female and the middle male when salaries are listed in numerical order.
The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in the average hourly rate 
of pay between men and women. The average male is paid 33.9% more 
than the average female.

Distribution of men and women across pay quartiles

Upper Quartile

Upper Middles Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

92.9%

92.9%

80.6%

Lower Quartile

61.2%

7.1%

7.1%

19.4%

38.8%

Male

Female

0.0%

20.0%

40.0%

60.0%

80.0%

100.0%

The results above show that there is a significantly greater proportion of male 
employees across all levels of our business. Women are also less well 
represented in the top quartile as a result of Roke having fewer women in 
senior leadership roles, which attract higher earnings.

Overall, women currently represent only 18% of Roke’s workforce.  This is a direct reflection of the nature of our business and sector in which we operate. At 
present, there are also fewer women in senior roles. 

As a result of initiatives already underway, we have seen the proportion of women in our apprentice and graduate intake increase. We will continue to recruit and 
develop all employees to foster a culture of diversity and inclusion at Roke. 

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

Our Results continued

All employees are eligible for a bonus depending on individual performance, as reflected in the results below.  

Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Proportion of People Awarded Bonus Payments 

Median Mean
Bonus Gender Pay Gap 41.86% 32.85%

The bonus gender pay gap shows the bonus pay difference between 
men and women, irrespective of their role, at the median (mid-point) 
and mean (average).

92.80%

90.28%

The gender bonus pay gap at Roke is predominantly affected by two things: firstly, 55% of female employees work part-time and the bonus gender pay gap 
calculation is based on actual bonus amounts received. At Roke, part-time employees will receive a pro-rated bonus payment. Male employees at Roke are more 
likely to work full-time. Secondly, bonus potential is greater for roles that attract higher levels of pay.

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

Addressing Our Gender Pay Gap

Our employees are critical to our success and reputation. We rely on them in every aspect of our work and we value and appreciate their 
commitment to deliver the critical programmes our clients require.  Therefore, it is only right that we support them in both their professional 
and personal lives through a comprehensive reward and engagement package. Beyond salary, bonus, pension and private healthcare, our 
initiatives include flexible working arrangements that give our employees the ability to adapt their working hours to meet personal and business 
commitments.

We want to encourage more women to consider a career at Roke 
and have ambitions to increase the number of female engineers 
within our business. We work closely with organisations like IET to 
support the #9PercentIsNotEnough campaign and the development 
of and progression of women in engineering. 

Good progress is being made in building our early career 
programmes too. Numerous graduates and apprentices have joined 
Roke across both technical and non-technical roles,  and comprise 
11.88% of our workforce.  We are encouraged by the fact 12.5% of 
this total are female. 

Our environment at Roke must support all our employees to fulfil 
their potential. In working towards this we have changed the way we 
advertise to ensure gender neutral representation. 

We also have strong links with a number of universities and were 
shortlisted in 2018 for our collaborative work with the University of 
Southampton in the National Undergraduate Employability Awards. 
We have been ranked 13th in the top 50 Small to Medium Under 
Graduates Employers Award.

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

We are currently members of WISE (Women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics), and are investigating further 
memberships with WES (Women’s Engineering Society) and STEMETTES.  We are also platinum members of the Cyber Security 
Challenge whose primary goal is to bring diverse talent into the Cyber Security Industry.

To help inspire the next generation of women in engineering, we have arranged an 
annual Women’s Engineering Experience Day since 2011. Local secondary schools 
invite ten Year 8 girls to visit Roke, where we demonstrate the true nature of 
engineering.  The aim is to encourage engineering-focused GCSE choices and highlight 
the career opportunities for women to pursue in STEM areas.

Currently only 9% of the UK 

engineering workforce is female 
and the ambition is to grow this 
to 15% over the next 10 years 
with the IET 9% is not enough 
campaign.  It is our ambition to 
grow our engineering workforce 

to meet this target.

roke.co.uk
roke.co.uk

