Gender pay gap  
at Wellcome

April 2017

Wellcome improves health by helping great ideas to 
thrive. As a global charity that works with scientists, 
researchers, artists and educators across different 
countries and cultures, we are committed to 
inclusion and equality. It is important to us to 
create a working culture that is open and where 
differences are respected, valued and celebrated.

Gender pay gap is the difference between the average 
rates of pay for men and women. By comparing 
mean or median rates of pay, it reflects broad trends 
in employment and salaries. A fair and inclusive 
employer, operating in a fair and inclusive society, 
would have no pay gaps relating to gender or to other 
characteristics such as ethnicity. At Wellcome, we see 
our gender pay gap as one important measure of how 
much more we have to do to become a truly inclusive 
place to work.

In November 2016, Wellcome made Diversity and 
Inclusion a priority area, acknowledging that in order 
to broaden the diversity of people we fund, engage 
with and employ, we had to change some of our 
internal structures and practices. Many of the changes 
we are committed to will also help to reduce, and 
eventually eradicate, our gender pay gap.

Our gender pay gap
On 5 April 2017, Wellcome had a gender gap in median 
pay of 20.8%, slightly wider than the UK median.

Median and mean  
gender pay gaps

Median gender pay gap

20.8%

Excluding Investments team: 19.8%

National median: 18.1%

Mean gender pay gap

30.0%

Excluding Investments team: 24.2%

From the data used to calculate this figure and from a 
recent equal pay review, this gap exists mainly because 
of the disproportionate balance of men and women 
at different levels of Wellcome. Overall, around 64% 
of Wellcome employees are women, but most of the 
highest-paid senior roles in Wellcome are held by men. 
This imbalance has a larger effect on the gap in mean 
pay because the number of men receiving significantly 
higher rates of pay is relatively small.

Bonuses at Wellcome are usually awarded as a 
percentage of annual salary, so the gender gap in 
median bonus pay is similar to the gap in median pay.

Median and mean  

bonus gender pay gaps

Median gender bonus pay gap

22.6%

Excluding Investments team: 19.7%

Mean gender bonus pay gap

78.8%

Excluding Investments team: 6.5%

The gap in mean bonus pay is significantly wider –  
this is almost entirely because of the long-term 
incentive plans we use within our Investments team. 
While payments made through such plans can be 
much higher than bonuses elsewhere in Wellcome, 
this approach is much more cost-effective than 
paying external fund managers, especially considering 
the outstanding sustained returns the team has 
achieved in recent years. In 2017, the three most 
senior members of our Investments team – all men – 
received significant bonuses through their long-term 
incentive plans, skewing the overall mean bonus pay 
gap considerably. Across the rest of Wellcome, the 
gender gap in mean bonus pay was 6.5%.

Figures are for Wellcome Trust employees only, not including Wellcome subsidiaries such as Genome Research Limited.

Gender pay gap  
at Wellcome

April 2017

Proportion of women and men 

receiving a bonus payment

Women

75.0%

Men

74.6%

Gender balance  
of each pay quartile

Upper  
quartile

Upper 
middle  
quartile

Lower 
middle  
quartile

Lower  
quartile

What Wellcome is doing now
Wellcome is committed to becoming a more inclusive 
employer. Changes already underway include 
improving our diversity data so that we understand 
better where to target new initiatives. In 2018, we 
are providing training for all our staff to mitigate bias, 
and we have begun working towards a balanced 
distribution of men and women throughout Wellcome. 
In particular, we will be introducing fairer ways to 
support the recruitment, progression and retention 
of women at senior leadership levels. I have made a 
personal commitment to having a gender-balanced 
Executive Leadership Team at Wellcome by 2023.

Our collective aim is to create a culture in which 
people are motivated and equipped to reduce bias in 
their work, and where there is a balance of genders at 
all levels. As we learn more about the specific barriers 
that disadvantage certain groups of people from 
progressing in our workplace, we will remove them. 
Gender pay gap will be one way of measuring our 
progress, and we welcome the opportunity to be open 
and honest about where we are by publishing our  
data alongside other organisations based in the UK.

Embedding diversity and inclusion in Wellcome’s 
culture will give us access to a wider range of voices, 
helping us make better decisions. In the longer  
term, it will also strengthen a culture of international 
research in which everyone feels able to contribute 
their ideas, the great ideas we need to improve health.

F
M

47.8%
52.2%

61.7%

F
M 38.3%

F
M

24.2%

75.8%

Jeremy Farrar 
Director 
Wellcome

F
M 30.1%

69.9%

