 

    Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
We (Euro Car Parts Ltd) are an employer required by law to produce a Gender Pay Gap Report under the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Reporting) Regulations 2017. The four types of figures we are required to report on, 
as set out by the Government, are as follows: 

  Gender pay gap (mean and median averages) 
  Gender bonus gap (mean and median averages) 
  Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 
  Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s pay structure 

 
 

The heritage of Euro Car Parts spans over 40 years and is one where 
we strongly embrace, and are proud to be a market leader, that has 
a multi-cultural, multi-lingual organisation, inclusive of diversity, 
gender, age, race, religion and/or belief.  
 
We actively encourage anyone to apply to be part of our business that 
has the will to win, determination to learn and a passion to succeed. 
 

At Euro Car Parts we have an attitude to how we approach every day at work and what we stand for. Our founder, 
Sukhpal Singh, started it all off in 1978 and this passion and drive is still intrinsic today in everything we do – with 
our attitude of ‘Whatever It Takes’. Whether this is to find the right person to join our team, to get the job done, 
to get an order to our customers, achieve a goal or exceed a target – we have 5 core truths that underpin this and 
that sit at the heart of Euro Car Parts: Putting the customer first, It’s all about the people, Being the best, Never 
giving up and Strive to do the right thing. 
 
We strongly believe that our people are at the heart of everything we do, and we know that with the right people 
we can achieve great results, we’re bigger than the sum of our parts, and we know that our people make us who 
we are. 
 
 
Our results: 
As required, our results below are based on data as of 5th April 2017: 
 
Pay results: 

Mean hourly pay gap: The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay that male and female full-pay relevant employees receive. 

 

 

ECP Gender Pay Gap Report_2018 

 

    Gender Pay Gap Report 

Median hourly pay gap: The difference between the median hourly rate of pay that male and female full-pay relevant employees receive. 
 
ECP’s mean and median hourly pay gap, is significantly lower then the national average. This is achieved by our 
salary structure that does not discriminate based on gender. 
 
 
Bonus results: 

 

 

 

 

Bonus proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment: The proportion of male relevant employees who were paid any amount of bonus pay, 
and the proportion of female relevant employees who were paid any amount of bonus pay. 
 
Whilst we recognise a bonus proportion pay gap of 7.65%, this is driven by the historic nature of our industry 
being male dominated and is role specific and not gender specific. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECP Gender Pay Gap Report_2018 

 

    Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
Quartile results: 

 

Quartile pay: The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in four quartile pay bands, which is done by dividing the workforce into four 

equal parts. 
 
The upper middle quartile is affected by certain roles that are male dominated, this too is driven by the historic 
nature of our industry being male dominated and is role specific and not gender specific. 
 
 
Our summary 
We’re committed to building the best team in the car parts aftermarket industry, and we do this by attracting and 
retaining the right people to do the job. We have a strong belief to identify internal talent and promote from 
within, and actively and openly encourage our colleagues to be the best they can be every day whether internally 
with each other or externally with our customers, clients or partners.  
 
Naturally the motor industry is dominated by males, which is historical practice and inherent of bygone times, 
and we are happy to see, and support, that it’s becoming more common place for females to join the industry 
and specifically Euro Car Parts, in this exciting and fast paced marketplace. 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
Content confirmed and approved by: 
 
Martin Gray, CEO, Euro Car Parts & Dave Brookfield, People/HR Director, Euro Car Parts – March 2018. 

ECP Gender Pay Gap Report_2018 

