 

 

Context 

Ashgate Hospicecare 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting Statement 

Published February 2018 

The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 requires all 

organisations with 250 employees or more to report annually on their gender pay gap. For 
charities, including Ashgate Hospicecare, this must be published by 4th April each year, and 
within one year of the ‘snapshot’ data being taken.  Ashgate Hospicecare took its ‘snapshot’ data 
on 5th April 2017. 

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference in the average earnings of men and women over 

a defined time period, regardless of role or seniority.  

The report is required to publish data on the mean and median salary pay gap, the proportion of 

males and females in each pay quartile and the pay gap between males and females for staff 

who receive bonus payments. As no employees currently receive bonus payments, no bonus 

data is provided. 

Gender Pay Gap Results 

On the 5th April 2017 Ashgate Hospicecare employed 308 employees: 268 women and 40 men.  
The average gap for Ashgate Hospicecare is shown in Table 1.  For comparison, national, 

regional and local averages are shown in Table 2. 

Table 1 Gender pay gap statistics for Ashgate Hospicecare 
Mean gender pay gap 
 
Median gender pay gap  
 
 

0.46% 

-19% 

 

Table 21 

National 

Derbyshire 

Chesterfield 

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

14.1% 

18.3% 

10.8% 

9.1%       

23% 

12.1%   

Table 3 Gender pay gap statistics Full Time Empoyees 
 
Mean gender pay gap 
 
Median gender pay gap 

-2% 

-9% 

 

 

 

                                                             
1 Source: ONS – November 2017 

 
 

 

 

Table 4 Gender pay gap statistics Part Time Empoyees 
 
Mean gender pay gap 
 
Median gender pay gap  
 

3% 

5% 

Gender Split by Pay Quartiles 

Quartile Pay 

Bands 
Male 

 

Female 

 

 

Lower 
Quartile 
20.78% 

Lower 

Upper Middle 

Middle Quartile 

10.39% 

Quartile 
10.39% 

Upper Quartile 

10.39% 

79.22% 

89.61% 

89.61% 

89.61% 

Summary & Statement  

The gender pay gap at Ashgate Hospicecare is significantly below that of national, regional and 

local averages. 

As is reflected across the wider health and social care sector, Ashgate Hospicecare employs 

more women than men, with the (predominantly female) nursing staff falling into middle and 

upper quartiles. In addition, forty percent of all male staff were employed in the lower quartile and 

these factors clearly have an impact on the overall median pay gap figures highlighted in the 

report. 

The equal pay audits, which we regularly undertake along with our commitment to flexible 

working options and family friendly policies, help ensure we provide a level playing field for all our 

staff, taking particular account of caring responsibilities.  We also recognise however that there is 

always progress to be made. 

We welcome the introduction of these new Regulations and believe our data directly reflects our 

approach and behaviours as a fair, progressive and ethical employer. We recognise the valuable 

contribution of all our people, and the importance of equity and flexibility in being able to deliver 

the very highest levels of care to our patients and supporters.We look forward to continuing to 

champion this work in the months ahead. 

I confirm this data as true and accurate: 

 

 

 

Barbara-Anne Walker 

CEO 

 
 

 

 

 

Definitions 

• Gender pay gap (GPG) - calculated as the difference between average hourly earnings 

(excluding overtime) of men and women as a proportion of average hourly earnings (excluding 

overtime) of men. For example, a 4% GPG denotes that women earn 4% less, on average, than 

men. Conversely, a -4% GPG denotes that women earn 4% more, on average, than men. 

 

 

• Mean - a measure of the average which is derived by summing the values for a given sample, 

and then dividing the sum by the number of observations (i.e. jobs) in the sample. In earnings 

distributions, the mean can be disproportionately influenced by a relatively small number of high-

paying jobs. 

 

 

 

 

 

• Median - the value below which 50% of jobs fall. It is ONS's preferred measure of average 

earnings as it is less affected by a relatively small number of very high earners and the skewed 

distribution of earnings. It therefore gives a better indication of typical pay than the mean. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

• Full-time - employees working more than 30 paid hours per week 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

