UK Gender Pay Gap  
Report 2017

What is the  
Gender Pay Gap?

•	 The	gender	pay	gap	shows	the difference	in	the	average	

pay between all men and women in a workforce, 
irrespective of their role and level in the organisation.  
It is not the same as Equal Pay.

•	 Equal	pay	deals	with	the	pay differences	between	men	
and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally 
because of their gender.

Foreword

Providing data and information is at the 
heart of what we do. We welcome the call 
for increasing transparency and the UK 
Government’s gender pay gap regulations 
that help to shine a light on this issue. At 
Thomson Reuters, we believe the strongest 
workforce is the most diverse workforce; the 
most competitive in the global economy. 
That’s why, in March 2017, we committed 
to 40% female leadership across the 
organization by 2020 and are proud of the 
progress we’ve made to date. We will continue 
to champion gender equality and look forward 
to continuing to measure progress.

Mark Sandham
SVP	and	Chief	Operating	Officer,	HR

Thomson Reuters

2     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Measuring the Gender Pay Gap

By taking into account the full distribution of hourly 
rates of pay, the mean includes the low and high 
earners in an organisation – this is particularly 
useful as women are often over-represented in roles 
that typically attract lower pay and men are over-
represented in roles that typically attract higher pay. 

By identifying the hourly rate of pay of the middle 
earner, the median is the best representation of the 
‘typical’ gender difference because it reduces the 
impact of extreme values, so if one or two people are 
paid much more or less than the norm the impact of 
these is lessened by taking the median value rather 
than the mean.

3     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

How we measure the mean gap

Number 
of male 
employees

Mean male
average pay

Number 
of male 
employees

Mean male
average pay

The difference

Mean hourly 
pay gap

The difference

Number 
of female 
employees

Mean hourly 
Mean female 
pay gap
average pay

Number 
of female 
employees

Mean female 
average pay

How we measure the median gap

Median male hourly pay

Median male hourly pay

Pay quartiles

Pay quartiles

Lower

Upper middle

Lower middle

Lower

Upper

Upper middle

Lower middle

Upper

Median female hourly pay

Median female hourly pay

The median gap is the percentage 
difference between the two ﬁgures

The median gap is the percentage 
difference between the two ﬁgures

Understanding our Pay Gap

Calculating  
our numbers

For statutory reporting the gender pay gap regulations 
require companies to publish data for each legal entity 
with over 250 employees. Thomson Reuters is made 
up of a number of legal entities, so we are publishing 
figures	for	Thomson	Reuters	Professional	(UK)	Limited	
and	Reuters	Limited	–	our	legal	entities	with	more	than	
250 employees. We also have two other legal entities  
in the UK with less than 250 employees which are  
not reported.  

However,	the	true	reflection	of	our	business	is	data	that	
covers all our legal entities, so this report provides a  
view of our entire UK business.

% receiving a bonus payment

% of employees

39.77%

80.61%

77.17%

60.23%

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile

50.89%

46.07%

32.00%

30.13%

49.11%

53.93%

68.00%

69.87%

Lower quartile

Lower mid quartile

Upper mid quartile

Upper quartile

Combined figures for all Thomson Reuters UK legal entities
Median Bonus Gap
Mean Pay Gap 
16.95 %  

 
Median Pay Gap
  22.07 %

Mean Bonus Gap 
50.52 % 

 
  43.62 %

4     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

The Women in 
Finance Charter 

In April 2016, Thomson Reuters signed The Women in Finance 
Charter,	a	pledge	for	gender	balance	across	the	UK	financial	
services	industry.	As	the	first	signatory	outside	the	banking	
sector, Thomson Reuters has committed to working with all 
financial	services	firms	to	see	gender	parity	at	all	levels,	and	to	
build a more balanced and fair industry. Signing the Charter 
is a long-term commitment from organizations to support the 
progression	of	women	into	senior	roles	in	financial	services,	
create a diversity strategy with internal targets, and publicly 
report on progress delivered against these internal targets.

5     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

We need to continue to manage 
the flow of talent to the top of the 
organisation so that it properly 
reflects the diversity of the society 
we inhabit and the customers 
we serve. It isn’t about meeting 
gender targets today – it’s about 
creating an environment, a culture, 
which attracts and retains the best 
people because it offers them the 
opportunity to succeed and to excel, 
it’s about an open and inclusive 
culture that drives better performance.

David Craig  
President, Financial & Risk at Thomson Reuters
April 2016

Q&A 

Marion Leslie 
MD, Enterprise Proposition, Financial and Risk

What has been your career development to date?
I joined at entry level and have been at Thomson Reuters for over 20 
years. My career has developed through a variety of roles in different 
functions and locations supported by formal development programmes.  
Role highlights include leading and growing businesses, including my 
current role as MD of the Enterprise business incorporating our Elektron 
real time data feeds, analytics and platforms, setting up our Bangalore 
centre and growing it from scratch to over 2000 people in 4 years and 
leading a team of 1500 data and technology experts globally.

At	the	same	time	I	have	benefitted	from	a	range	of	leadership	
development programmes, such as Thomson Reuters Global Executive 
Programme and our Career Sponsorship Programme for Women.

I have also had external recognition through being named in the 2017 
Cranfield	University	Female	FTSE	100	Women	to	Watch	Board	Report	
and in 2014 was the winner of the Award for Achievement at the 
Women in Banking and Finance Awards.

Serving on external boards such as the Non Exec Director at UK 
Hydrographic	Office,	Chair	of	London	Women’s	Forum	and	Trustee	 
of Prostate Cancer UK has also enabled me to extend my  
development further.

What has changed over the years for women from your 
personal standpoint? 
Three main things:  
1. 

 The business case for gender diversity is increasingly understood 
with executive teams recognising that gender balance is a  
business issue.

2.	 	Recognition	that	it	is	not	a	case	of	“fixing	the	women”.	Men	and	women	

need to work together to effect change in their organisations.

3.   Change needs to be sponsored from the top of the organisation 

with clear commitment from the leadership.  Our CEO Jim Smith’s 
personal commitment to driving change as well as his stated goal of 
40% women in senior roles is a great example of this.

What advice would you offer women as they think 
about development of their careers?
If you have a choice, work in an organisation that values diversity 
and where the senior leadership are committed to supporting the 
development of women and their progression into senior roles.

Have	a	personal	development	plan	and	ensure	others	support	your	goals.

6     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Why do we have a Gender Pay Gap?

Similar to many organisations, a key driver of our gender pay gap is the 
distribution of men and women across different job levels and functions.  
Men currently occupy 71% of our senior leadership roles which tend to attract 
higher levels of pay. We also have a large percentage of our overall employee 
population	(23%)	in	technology	roles,	a	sector	which	traditionally	has	had	a	
high proportion of men, so this also contributes to our gender pay gap.

The	bonus	gap	is	also	impacted	by	the	senior	leadership	profile	as	these	roles	
attract	long	term	financial	incentives	which	are	included	in	the	bonus	gap	
calculations. Similarly, as sales incentives are also included in the bonus pay 
gap calculations, the higher number of men in sales roles also has an impact.

Gender split 
by level

Senior Leadership

41
(71%)

17
(29%)

Management and Senior Professionals
1484 (67%)

Professionals, Administration and Technical
1450 (53%)

739 (33%)

1294 (47%)

Carien Van der Hoop 
Global Lead, OTC Infrastructure & Co-Chair Women at Thomson Reuters

What is the purpose of the women’s network? 
The purpose  of the women’s network is to connect women by building 
internal and external networks to expand awareness, generate 
opportunities and start conversations; to support the professional and 
personal growth of our women, championing the business pipeline and 
aiding progress throughout all career stages and to inspire and lead 
positive and impactful change for and throughout the organisation.

Why is it important to have a women’s network? 
It is important to have a women’s network to encourage open 
communication with men and women on gender equality at all 
times, highlighting the facts and numbers and ensuring that through 
continuous conversation between all of us we can together improve the 
numbers of women at all levels within the company.

It is also a safe platform for women to fall back on, to gain understanding 
and support to progress within their careers.

7     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Closing the  
Gender Pay Gap

We know that having a diverse workforce is not enough, we 
also need to build a culture of inclusion that leverages the 
strengths of all of our employees. From new hire orientation 
to management and leadership training to an online portal 
accessible to all employees, we focus on developing global 
mindsets, breaking unconscious bias and demonstrating the 
business case for diversity across the organization.

In 2012 we formed our Women’s Advisory Taskforce chaired by 
our CEO Jim Smith, alongside male and female leaders across 
the globe. From this many of our initiatives have been born 
including our people goal where all our managers are tasked 
with developing and managing high performing diverse teams. 

8     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Aware of the competitive advantage a 
diverse workforce can deliver, Thomson 
Reuters is committed to ensuring 
equality is a priority in recruiting and 
retaining talent through the use of 
diverse candidate slates, initiatives 
such as Women in Leadership training 
courses and highlighting STEM careers 
to the next generation through events 
such as girls only coder dojos.
Our award winning learning and 
development programs target women 
across the business at various levels 
to make sure that we have the talent 
in place to deliver what we need to 
achieve our target of 40% of leadership 
roles being held by women by 2020.

Statutory Reporting

Thomson Reuters (Professional) UK Limited

Reuters Limited

% male/female employees

50.44%/49.56%

% male/female employees

65.32%/34.68%

Mean pay gap 

Median pay gap 

Mean bonus gap

Median bonus gap

2.43%

8.72%

51.00%

43.20%

Mean pay gap 

Median pay gap 

Mean bonus gap

Median bonus gap

20.23%

23.66%

40.96%

33.11%

% males/females receiving a bonus payment 

93.08%/93.53%

% males/females receiving a bonus payment 

76.11%/65.98%

Upper quartile male/female %

46.24%/53.76%

Upper quartile male/female %

Upper middle quartile male/female %

60.38%/39.62%

Upper middle quartile male/female %

Lower middle quartile male/female %

46.09%/53.91%

Lower middle quartile male/female %

Lower quartile male/female %

45.55%/54.45%

Lower quartile male/female %

78.16%/21.84%

72.55%/27.45%

58.30%/41.70%

52.27%/47.73%

Declaration 
I	confirm	that	the	data	and	information	presented	in	this	report	are	accurate	and	meet	the	requirements	of	the	UK	Equality	Act	2010	 
(Gender	Pay	Gap	Information)	Regulations	2017. 
 

Mark Sandham
SVP	and	Chief	Operating	Officer,	HR

9     UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Visit tr.com

S064583/3-18

