Distribution Solutions
United Kingdom

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017

Gender pay gap reporting at  
ArcelorMittal Distribution Solutions UK

This report contains ArcelorMittal Distribution 
Solutions UK’s 2017 gender pay gap information, as 
required under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017.
In compliance with this regulation, ArcelorMittal 
Distribution Solutions UK Ltd (AMDS UK) has calculated 
and disclosed the gender pay gap, for all UK permanent 
employees, at AMDS UK.  

AMDS UK is a subsidiary of ArcelorMittal, consisting of 5 
sales and distribution sites and 2 sales offices. It supplies 
a full range of steel products to customers in the UK.  
The results below are specifically for AMDS UK and 
do not relate to the ArcelorMittal group or other 
ArcelorMittal subsidiaries.

AMDS UK workforce

Total workforce:

Proportion of employees in each  
pay quartile band

13%

99%
99%

1%
1%

Upper

Senior 
management:

87%

81%

19%

90%

80%

10%

20%

% of men who received bonus pay

0%

100%

Upper 
middle

Lower 
middle

Lower

Gender pay gap

Gender ‘hourly’ pay gap
Gender ‘bonus’ gap

Median Mean
24.5%
  7.2%
72.9%
52.6%

100%

% of women who received bonus pay

100%

This shows a mean and median pay gap of 25% and 
7% respectively. Women’s bonus pay was 53% (mean) 
and 73% (median) lower than men. ArcelorMittal 
Distribution Solution’s UK permanent UK workforce 
is 13% female. At present there are no females in 
senior management positions. This gender imbalance, 
combined with the low female representation 
at management level, is the principal reason for 
ArcelorMittal Distribution Solutions UK’s gender pay 
gap. In addition, there are no female shift working 
employees at present, impacting their ability to benefit 
from production bonuses and night pay rates. 
AMDS UK is committed to being a fair and diverse 
employer and we want to achieve greater gender 
balance at all levels.
Women have historically been underrepresented in 
the steel industry and there remain some challenges in 
attracting suitably qualified women into certain roles 
and in certain locations.
ArcelorMittal as a group, including AMDS UK, is 
committed to further improving our performance and 
we are working hard at recruiting and developing female 
talent within the business. ArcelorMittal have already 
started to take action in support of our diversity goals:
• A working group has been established to encourage 
more females to join ArcelorMittal and help existing 
talent to progress through the group;

• We dedicate a significant proportion of our 

community investments towards encouraging 
students, especially female students, to develop 
science, mathematics, engineering and technology 
(STEM) related skills;

• the ArcelorMittal University successfully launched its 
new program, Women@ArcelorMittal, which replaces 
the previous programs, Women In Leadership and 
Women Evolving in Leadership. This supports women 
in their skills and leadership development.

We know we have more to do in this area and through 
our ongoing diversity and inclusion initiatives, we are 
committed to ensuring that we actively encourage 
more females to join ArcelorMittal, and that women are 
able to progress and fully achieve their personal career 
goals. 

The UK gender pay gap reporting requirements 
in practice

In 2017 the UK Government introduced the requirement 
for companies, with over 250 employees in Great Britain, 
to calculate and report their gender pay gap for salary 
and bonuses on an annual basis.
A gender pay gap isn’t the difference in pay between men 
and women doing the same or similar work – that’s ‘equal 
pay’ and UK law prohibits less favorable treatment due to 
gender. Instead, a gender pay gap shows the difference 
between the average pay of all women and the average 
pay of all men, irrespective of any differences in the work 
they do. As a result, it’s affected by how the workforce 
is made up, including the numbers of men and women in 
different types of jobs and at different levels of seniority. 

Reporting requirements 
Companies are required to report the following gender 
pay gap information: 
• Gender pay gap – the difference between the 

median, and also the mean, hourly rate of pay for men 
and for women, based on the April 2017 pay period. 

• Gender bonus gap – the difference between the 

median, and also the mean, value of bonus pay for men 
and for women over the 12 months to April 2017. 
• Bonus proportions – the proportions of men and 

women who received bonus pay during the 12 months 
to April 2017. 

• Quartile pay bands – if the total workforce was put 
in order of hourly rate of pay and then split into four 
groups of equal size, or quartiles, this is the proportions 
of men and women in each of the four groups.

Median and mean 
The legislation requires average pay to be calculated in 
two different ways, using the median and also the mean: 
• Median – If all women were lined up in order of their 
pay, and so were all men, the median pay for men and 
the median pay for women would be the pay of the 
individual in the middle of each line. The median gender 
pay gap compares these two values. The median 
indicates the ‘typical’ situation in the middle and is less 
affected by any outliers at the top or bottom. 

• Mean – To calculate the mean level of pay for women 
and for men, the pay of all women is added together 
and then divided by the number of women, and the 
pay of all men is added together and then divided 
by the number of men. The mean gender pay gap 
compares these two values. The mean is more affected 
by any particularly high or low values within a group.

What does this mean?  
An illustration
A workforce is made up of: 
• Nine administrators (seven women and two men), 

who are all paid £20,000 a year. 

• Four senior managers (one women and three men), 

who are all paid £50,000 a year. 

Everyone who does the same job is paid equally, but: 
If you add together the pay for all eight women and 
divide by the number of women, the mean pay for 
all women is £23,750. If you add together the pay 
for all seven men and divide by the number of men, 
the mean pay for all men is £38,000. Comparing 
these two values results in a mean gender pay gap 
of 37.5%, which means the mean pay for women is 
37.5% less than for men. 
If you were to line up all eight women in order of 
pay, the woman in the middle of the line would be 
paid £20,000. If you were to do the same for all five 
men, the man in the middle of the line would be paid 
£50,000. Comparing these two values results in a 
median gender pay gap of 60%, which means the 
median pay for women is 60% less than for men. The 
gender pay gap in this example is due to the different 
numbers of men and women doing each type of job.

