Introduction

At Cristal, we wholeheartedly believe that all of our employees are equal, our people are our greatest asset and we value each 
and every one of them in an inclusive way.

Diversity enriches our workforce, the varied backgrounds of our people can bring about innovative ways of thinking, spark new 
ideas and make our business a more effective, world-class organisation.   

Cristal is an ambitious and growing business – a leader in our field. What sets us apart, however, is our culture.  

Whilst our gender split is currently significantly weighted towards men, this is common for our industry.  We do, however 
have female employees in many areas of our business; apprentices, technicians, engineers as well as scientists, specialists, 
professional roles and managers.  

We at Cristal, pride ourselves on treating all our employees – both male and female, in a fair and inclusive way.  We offer flexible 
and part-time working arrangements, job sharing and shared parental leave which are options available to everyone.

What is the Gender Pay Gap?

About this Report

The gender pay gap is the difference in overall average earnings between 
males and females within an organisation, irrespective of the job they do 
and the distribution of genders at different levels.   

This is shown in this report through a number of key statistics, based on 
ordinary pay.

Cristal is a global organisation with manufacturing plants spanning 7 
countries and 5 continents. This report has been prepared in line with 
the UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting Regulations, under the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2. This report and all 
the statistics within it therefore relate to the UK Company only; Cristal 
Pigment UK Limited.

• 

• 

• 

Mean and Median Pay Gap

Mean and Median Bonus Pay Gap

Proportions of male and female employees in each of 4 quartiles

Gender  pay  is  not  the  same  as  Equal  Pay, 
which is the difference in pay between males 
and females who carry out the same or similar 
jobs.

Cristal’s Results:

Pay Quartiles show the ratio of male and female employees at Cristal split across 4 quartiles.  Quartiles represent the hourly pay rates from lowest to 
highest for all UK Cristal employees split into 4 equal sized groups, with the percentage of male and female employees in each quartile.

Pay Distribution by Quartile

Upper quartile

Lower Middle

82.4%

17.6%

94.5%

5.5%

Upper middle

Lower quartile

83.5%

16.5%

89.0%

11.0%

The ratio of male to female employees and the distribution of females across the four quartiles does have a bearing on the overall results.  67% of 
our female employees are in the top two quartiles, indicating a good representation in more senior and professional positions however a much lower 
representation in the lower two quartiles.

Total Employee Population Split:

Male
87.4%

Female
12.6%

The Mean Pay Gap is the difference in the average hourly pay for female employees compared to male employees in the company.

The mean pay for female employees at Cristal is 9.36% higher than that of male employees.

The Median Pay Gap represents the middle point of a population. To explain this further, if you lined up all the male employees at Cristal, in or-
der of pay from lowest to highest, then you lined up all the female employees at Cristal in the same way, the median pay gap is the percentage difference 
between the pay of the middle man compared with the pay of the middle woman.   

Pay scale

Pay scale

Median Pay

Median Pay

The Median pay for female employees in Cristal is 17.61% higher than that of male employees.

Did you know?  The national gender median pay gap for female employees is 18.4% lower than that of male employees. 

(Office for National Statistics Oct 2017 for all industries and sectors) 

The Mean Bonus Pay Gap is the difference between the 
mean value of bonuses for all male employees in the organisation and 
the mean value of bonuses for all female employees, expressed as a 
percentage.

The Median Bonus Pay Gap is calculated in the same way as 
the median pay gap however this time, for the value of bonuses. 

The mean bonus pay for female employees at Cristal is
34.87% higher than that of male employees.

The mean bonus pay gap is influenced by the high proportion of females 
in professional roles at Cristal, who have the opportunity to achieve 
higher bonus payments; which are linked to career levels.

The median bonus pay of female employees at Cristal is 
98.41% higher than that of male employees.

The median bonus percentage reflects the higher proportion of male 
employees in non-professional roles.

All Cristal employees have the potential to be awarded an annual bonus, 
as long as they meet the criteria in relation to their performance and 
qualifying period.

We value and respect the differences of every single employee at Cristal 
and we are committed to recruiting and developing the very best talent. 
We adopt a robust recruitment and selection process, which endeavours 
to identify and attract highly skilled professionals, engineers, operators 
and technicians, regardless of gender.

We use psychometric testing and competency based interviews to ensure 
we recruit, not only those that have the right skills for the job but also 
demonstrate the behaviours that reflect our culture of accountability and 
ownership.
 
When it comes to pay, our roles are evaluated to ensure that they are 
correctly set at a level commensurate with the skills and experiences 
required to fulfil the role effectively.  We benchmark our salaries 
nationally against similar industries to give us the confidence that we 
offer an appropriate and competitive benefits package that will enable us 
to attract and retain the best talent.

We actively promote equality of opportunity throughout our business. 
These principles of fairness inform everything we do and, as a result, 
Cristal employees can expect to be recognised and rewarded based on 
their individual talents and contribution – regardless of their gender or 
background.

“We have absolute belief that we treat our people fairly and with the upmost respect, 
whether they are male or female.  However we are also very aware that the proportion of 
females in our industry is low. To further enhance our diversity, we will continue to actively 
encourage and support our female employees whilst also working to inspire the young 
female technicians, engineers, scientists and professionals of the future, to pursue a career 
in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths) to help shape our future.” 

Rob Sarracini, General Manager of Cristal’s UK operation.

