 

 

Report To: 

Council 

 

25 January 2018 

Lead Officer: 

Head of People and Organisational Development 

 
 
 

PAY POLICY STATEMENT 

 
 

Purpose 

To approve the Pay Policy Statement for 2018.  
 
Recommendations 

a)  That Council approve the Pay Policy Statement  

 

Reasons for Recommendations 

In January 2017, the Council approved the Pay Policy Statement for the authority.  
This policy has been reviewed and updated with 2017/2018 pay and organisational 
structures and job titles.  
 
This report sets out the requirements of the Localism Act 2011 sections 38 to 40, in 
relation to the development of a Pay Policy Statement for South Cambridgeshire 
District Council. It apprises Members of the definitions and principles, such as 
transparency and affordability.   
 
The report also fulfils the requirement under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017 which private and public sector employers to report 
annually,  the difference between the average hourly rate of pay for male and female 
employees. 
 
Background 

The 2011 Hutton Review of Fair Pay recommended a requirement to openly compare 
the policies on remuneration for chief officers, and details of how decisions are made 
about the salaries of the highest paid officers and how that relates to the lowest paid. 

The Localism Act 2011 requires English local authorities to produce a statutory Pay 
Policy Statement for each financial year.  The Pay Policy Statement must be 
approved by a resolution of Full Council and must include pay and other 
remuneration for chief officers and other employees, including the lowest paid.  
 
The DCLG statutory guidance on the Localism Act refers to ”Openness and 
accountability in local pay” and covers such matters as pay fairness in the public 
sector by increasing transparency over pay and tackling disparities between the 
lowest and the highest paid in public sector organisations. 

 

 
1. 

 

 

 
2. 

3. 

4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

7. 

    
8. 

 
9. 

10. 

11. 

 
12. 

13. 

 

 
14. 

 
15. 

Remuneration is defined widely, to include pay, charges, fees (such as returning 
officer fees), allowances, and benefits in kind, pension, termination payments, 
performance bonus and severance payments. The statement should also refer to the 
authority’s approach to the re-employment of officers and, in particular senior officers 
who have returned to a local authority into a similar senior officer role. 

The Council’s strategy must be one of balancing between securing and retaining 
high-quality employees whilst maintaining pay equality and avoiding excessive pay 
rates. In developing the policy the authority must be satisfied that its policy is 
workable, affordable and reasonable and, that it will instil public confidence.  
 
In November 2015 the Government indicated its intention to go ahead with proposals 
to introduce a cap on exit payments for employees in the public sector.  This has 
been included within the Enterprise Bill 2015.  Regulations have been drafted and 
subjected to consultation during 2016. There has been further consultation on this 
during 2017 and current plans are for final approval in early 2018. 
 
The Enterprise Bill (now Enterprise Act) and Public Sector Exit Payment Regulations 
2016  state Government’s intention that there will be: 

  Place a limit on the value of exit payments 
  Cover most types of payment relating to exits, including voluntary and 

compulsory redundancy and severance payments 

  Apply broadly across the public sector 
  Enable restrictions to be relaxed in exceptional circumstances subject to 

approval by the relevant Minister 

  There will be a limited number of exempt payments (e.g. death or injury) 

Relevant council employment and pension policies will be revised once the full details 
and implications are known in relation to the regulations concerning termination 
arrangements and exit payments. 
 
The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 require larger 
private and public sector employers (250+ employees) to report annually the 
difference between the mean and median average hourly rate of pay for male and 
female employees, gender bonus gap and the number of men and women across 
salary quartiles. Both sets of regulations came into force on 31 March 2017, with the 
first reports falling due by 30 March 2018 in the public sector and by 4 April 2018 in 
the private sector. The report has been updated to reflect this requirement. 
 

Considerations 

The Council has made provision in the medium term financial strategy (MTFS) for a 
1% pay increase for 2018/2019 financial year. This is in addition to 1% to cover 
incremental rises. South Cambridgeshire District Council agrees annual pay awards 
through local negotiation with the recognised trade unions (GMB and Unison). 

The Unison local branch has submitted a pay claim for 2018.  The claim sets out a 
number of arguments for an increase in pay for employees including the rising cost of 
living in the South East, the impact of recent pay freezes and pay caps in the public 
sector and recruitment and retention pressures.  The trade union has also made 
reference to the National Living Wage and Living Wage Foundation rate.  The trade 
union has requested a pay increase of 5%, across all spinal points which would add 

16. 

17. 

 

18. 

19. 

 

20. 
 

21. 

 

22. 

 

 
23. 

to the Council’s pay bill by £800K in the first year and place an immediate and 
ongoing requirement on the Council to find further savings.  
 
The local trade union pay claim is not in line with the national Local Government pay 
offer which aims to address the lowest scp values (NJC Pay scales) and, increase all 
other pay points by 2%. It is part of a two-year pay deal offered by Local Government 
employers.  
 
The Finance and Staffing Portfolio Holder will give consideration to the pay claim 
once Council has approved the budget for 2018/2019. 

 

Implications 
 
Financial 
Salaries referred to in the Pay Policy Statement are within current budgets.   
 
Implications for an increase of 5% on current pay points is set out in 15 above. A 
proposal to increase the Council’s pay bill by more than the amount in the MTFS 
would need Full Council approval. 

Legal 
The Localism Act 2011 requires the Council to have a Pay Policy Statement. 

Staffing 
Pay and benefits for Council employees remains a key element in terms of attracting 
and retaining talent and therefore delivering first class services. The Council’s pay 
and reward strategy has been developed to ensure that employee pay is based on a 
fair and transparent evaluation process.   

Equality and Diversity 
The Council’s pay grade structure and job evaluation method meets the requirements 
of the Equalities Act.   

Consultations (including from the Youth Council) 

Trade Unions were fully involved in the Job Evaluation project and, as such, were 
consulted throughout the process of achieving the Single Status Agreement and pay 
and grading structures.  Employees were consulted and balloted on the Single Status 
Agreement, which details the Council’s approach to pay and benefits. 
 
The trade unions have submitted a pay claim for 2018 on behalf of their members. 

24. 
 
 
 
 
Background Papers 
 
19. 

The following background papers were used in the preparation of this report: 

 

  Local Government Association and ALACE guidance dated November 2011 

   DCLG Code of recommended practice for Local Authorities on transparency 
September 2011 

  Department for Business & Skills - Guidance on Enterprise Bill 
  The Equalities Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 

2017 

  www.gov.uk/government/consultations    
 

 
 
Report Author:  

Susan Gardner-Craig – Head of People and Organisational 
Development 
Telephone: (01954) 713285 

