 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report Explanatory Narrative 

for Bolton Council’s workforce data as at 31 March 2017 

 

 

Background to the Gender Pay Gap at Bolton 

Bolton Council has prepared this report as part of the new legal requirement for public authorities to publish 
their gender pay gap every year. 

The council is committed to minimising the gender pay gap and as an organisation invests in their lower-
paid staff, pays the Living Wage rate and provides favourable terms and conditions, regardless of gender. 

The council offers a competitive reward package including staff benefits, pension contributions, training 
opportunities, occupational health support and flexible working options, in addition to pay.   

There are many career pathways, investment in training and leadership development and clear progression 
routes enabling staff to develop into more senior roles.  

There also continues to be apprenticeships across many areas of the organisation.  

Regarding remuneration, the council completed a fundamental Pay and Grading review in 2009 and all 
NJC posts in scope were evaluated and assimilated onto a single pay spine.  Other terms and conditions, 
including additional payments, were reviewed as part of the implementation, including the removal of bonus 
payments. The rate for the job is based on the role and responsibilities of the post, irrelevant of the post 
holder’s gender. All jobs are assimilated to grades based on a full 13 factor evaluation of the duties and 
responsibilities, to ensure pay parity and no gender bias when determining pay rates.  

As an equal opportunity employer, our recruitment and selection policy is fairly and consistently applied to 
ensure equality of opportunity for all, to value diversity and encourage men and women to apply equally for 
all roles and progression within the organisation.  

The council provides many different exciting career opportunities, clear progression routes and a flexible 
working environment. Our many training and development schemes evidence our investment in staff and 
their ambitions and aspirations, to ensure maximum retention and effective succession planning.  

Publishing the data is part of our commitment to put actions in place to minimise the gap further. 

 

 

Analysis 

The council is now required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under The Equality Act 2010 
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017.  

These regulations require the relevant organisations to publish their gender pay gap data by 30 March 
2018 (for data as at 31st March 2017 and then annually thereafter), including mean and median gender pay 
gaps; the mean and median gender bonus gaps; the proportion of men and women who received bonuses; 
and the proportions of male and female employees in each pay quartile. 

The gender pay gap is different to Equal Pay.  Equal Pay deals with the differences between men and 
women who carry out the same job or undertake work of equal value.  It is illegal to pay people unequally 
because of their gender. The Council’s equality proof pay structure, implemented in 2009, ensures fair and 
consistent job evaluation of all roles, regardless of the job holder’s gender. The gender pay gap shows the 
difference in the average pay rates between all men and all women in the workforce.  

Bolton’s workforce 

70% 

30% 

All staff 

 

  Within the council around 70% of staff are women and 30% men  
  Around 51% of our workforce works full time and 49% part time 
  86% of part time employees are women and 14% are men 

The gender pay gap data 

Bolton Council’s mean gender pay gap is 6% i.e. the average hourly rate for women is 6% lower than the 
average hourly rate for men. This is equivalent in monetary terms to 80p more per hour for men.  

The council’s median gender pay gap is 10.7% i.e. the midpoint in all employees’ hourly pay. Women’s 
median pay is 10.7% lower than the average hourly rate for men. This is equivalent in monetary terms to 
£1.24 more per hour for men.  

Hourly pay quartiles – the workforce, in order of hourly rate separated into four quarters. The gender % in 
each quarter is as below:

70 

30 

80 

20 

68 

32 

68 

32 

70 

30 

All Staff

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

 

The bonus data reporting required does not apply at Bolton Council as bonuses are not paid. 

 

 

Explanation of the pay gap 

Potential causes of the pay gap are varied: 

  86% of our part time workforce are women and analysis of the part-time roles shows that the 

majority of these are within the lower graded job families e.g. cleaners, general assistants and care 
assistants etc.  

  There are differences in job groups predominantly occupied by men and women. Women occupy a 
large percentage of the lowest paid jobs e.g. cleaning, catering, administrative and care functions.  
Whereas the lowest paid and largest job groups predominantly occupied by men e.g. refuse, 
neighbourhood services roles which are evaluated at a slightly higher grade, due to the duties of the 
job (and therefore the scoring of these duties on our job evaluation scheme).  

  The quartile analysis explains why the median gap is higher than the mean. When pay is ordered 

from lowest to highest as a percentage of all women across the organisation, a large majority (80%) 
of workers in lowest quartile are women. The result pushes the median pay for men slightly higher 
than the median pay for women.  

  Considering the national picture, women do play a greater role in caring for children, as well as for 

sick or elderly relatives. As a result more women work part time, and a significant proportion of 
these jobs tend to be lower paid roles. For example, around 80% of those working in the lower paid 
care and leisure sector are women. Conversely, men make up the majority of those in the highest 
paid and most senior roles, for example, there are just 7 female Chief Executives in the FTSE 100.* 

Our progress 

At Bolton the mean gender pay gap has reduced from 10.4% in 2009 to 6 % in 2017.  This can be 
attributed to the implementation of the Pay and Grading Review and Living Wage Supplement but also our 
flexible working policies, which help support many staff work flexibly to balance their home and caring 
responsibilities. These provisions include part time and term time working, flexi time, condensed hours, 
home working, holiday purchase scheme and shared parental leave. Furthermore, this is supported by the 
figure that over 60% of our senior managers are women.   

The council is fully committed to paying the highest possible rate for our lowest earners. Over the last 5 
years a series of improvements to the pay structure have been made including the introduction of a Living 
Wage Supplement in 2016. This has now taken the council’s lowest hourly rate to £8.45 which is the 
amount set by the Living Wage Foundation.  As the majority of workers on these rates are women and this 
has helped to reduce the (mean) GPG. 

Our average hourly rate across the council is £12.76 which is far higher than the minimum and living wage 
levels. 

 
Further action to eliminate the gender pay gap  

As the analysis shows, some of the gap is inherently caused by the job roles chosen by men and women. 

The council will continue to work to eliminate the gender pay gap. The Executive Management Team has 
tasked departmental management teams with analysing the gender profile of professions within their 
divisions and addressing any barriers to women accessing career pathways, e.g. could job roles be made 
more flexible and entry level posts, such as apprenticeships be facilitated 

The council’s commitment will also continue to ensure policies and procedures, including recruitment and 
retention practices, career development opportunities and job evaluation processes are fair and 
transparent. 

 *Source:  The Fawcett Society – the UKs leading charity campaigning for gender equality and women’s rights 

(Version control: Updated 21/03/18- following approval for the website – J Hartley) 

