      Cookies Policy We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue without changing your settings, we’ll assume that you are happy to receive cookies.  Continue      Careers | Information for Shareholders (UK & ROI) Fund investors Search    Link Asset Services  Who we are  Our story Our business What we do  Link Market Services Shareholder registration Investor relations Share dealing Share plans Initial Public Offering (IPO) Depositary interest Link Fund Solutions UK Authorised Fund Manager Irish Management Company Independent AIFM Jersey management company Closed-ended funds Irish fund administration UK transfer agency Corporate Services Company secretarial Company formation / administration Corporate trustee Special Purpose Vehicles Service of legal process Escrow services Aviation leasing Outsourcing services Billing services Private Clients Family office / private trust Estate administration Treasury Leasing advisory Public sector treasury Cash management and FX Who we serve  Asset managers Investment companies Corporates Growth companies Trusts and foundations Real estate and infrastructure Our thinking News Contact Us  Gender Pay Gap We want our employees to thrive and innovate, which is why we've created working environments that suit the varied styles of today's professional, so our employees can focus on delivering value for our clients. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Statement Safety, Health & Environment Policy Statement Environmental Policy Statement UK modern slavery policy Terms & Conditions of Purchase UK Equality and Diversity Policy Statement Gender Pay Gap Select section  Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Statement Safety, Health & Environment Policy Statement Environmental Policy Statement UK modern slavery policy Terms & Conditions of Purchase UK Equality and Diversity Policy Statement Gender Pay Gap Home > Group policies > Gender Pay Gap Our People A committed, engaged workforce is crucial to supplying our clients with the high quality service we are proud to deliver. We want our employees to thrive and innovate, which is why we've created working environments that suit the varied styles of today's professional, so our employees can focus on delivering value for our clients. We invest in our employees by providing a breadth of career progression and training opportunities, supportive work environments and employee benefits. We also recognise that there are both strategic and social benefits in actively addressing issues such as gender diversity and pay equality, and in making a significant contribution to the wider community. Our culture Uniting Link Group employees across the globe is a strong workplace culture combining our core values of Professionalism, Teamwork, Integrity, Respect and Commitment. There are six characteristics that exemplify Link Group's culture.  We: Are commercial and innovative; Have a can-do attitude no matter what the challenge; Are trusted and authentic; Are customer centric; Are entrepreneurial and agile; and Are committed to our values. Gender Pay Gap Link Asset Services has reported gender pay gap results for UK companies as per the reporting requirements covered under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  The regulations came into force in April 2017 and require companies with more than 250 employees to publish information on their gender pay gap. The first report is for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017 with annual reporting thereafter. To download a copy of our Gender Pay Report, please click here "The data for the 2017 Gender Pay Report was prepared by Capita Plc as our parent company at the snapshot date. To the best of my knowledge, I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate and has been produced in accordance with the regulations."  Matthew Hartley HR Director Part of Link Group Legal and regulatory status Privacy Policy Group policies © Link Asset Services 2018