 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting – March 2018 

 

 
 
Vital Energi are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. This was brought into effect following the 
2015  general  election  where  the  Government  announced  that  it  intended  to  fulfil  a  manifesto 
commitment by bringing into force a provision of the Equality Act 2010 on gender pay gap reporting. 
 
The Office of National Statistics has put the overall gender pay gap for all employees in the UK in 2016 
at a median of 18.1%. Woman typically earned around one-fifth less than men.  
 
This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in an organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employee data. We, as a 
company, are required to publish the results on our own website and a government website within 
one calendar year of 5th April 2017. 
 
As an employer, we must publish the following six calculations which show: 

1.  average gender pay gap as a mean average (expressed as a percentage) 
2.  average gender pay gap as a median average (expressed as a percentage) 
3.  average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average (expressed as a percentage) 
4.  average bonus gender pay gap as a median average (expressed as a percentage) 
5.  proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females receiving a bonus 

payment 

6.  proportion  of  males  and  females  when  divided  into  four  groups  ordered  from  lowest  to 

highest pay. 

 
After carrying out the above calculations, we have found the following: 

1.  the mean gender pay gap (hourly rate of pay) is 32.6% lower for women 
2.  the median gender pay gap (hourly rate of pay) is 32.0% lower for women 
3.  the mean gender bonus gap is 15.7% lower for women 
4.  the median gender bonus gap is 37.1% higher for women 
5.  the proportion of male employees receiving a bonus is 1.0% compared to 1.4% of females 

employees receiving a bonus  

6.  Pay Quartiles by Gender: 

 
 

  
Top Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Men 
95.5% 
84.3% 
82.0% 
66.3% 

Women 
4.5% (4 women) 
15.7% (14 women) 
18.0% (16 women) 
33.7% (30 women) 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
Causes of Vital Energi’s Gender Pay Gap 
A gender pay cap can show that women are not progressing within the company at the same rate as 
their male counterparts. This does, however, mainly come down to the industry that we operate in; 
engineering.  Women make up only 12.5% of those in engineering occupations industry wide and less 
than  10%  of  those  in  an  engineering  role  within  an  engineering  company.  Vital  Energi  currently 
employs in total 64 women which equates to a total of 18% of our entire workforce. This surpasses 
the  industry  average.  Women  in  engineering  roles  within  Vital  Energi  (including  the  functions 
Engineering,  District  Heating,  Commercial,  Design,  Operatives,  Pre-Fabrication  and  Solutions) 
currently  stand  at  7.1%.  Unfortunately,  this  further  highlights  the  male  dominated  industry  we 
currently reside in.  
 
Gender Pay Gap by Department 
From  the  table  below,  it  can  be  seen  that  some  departments  that  are  less  specifically  related  to 
Engineering  do  have  lower  than  average  pay  gap  percentages  than  the  company  as  a  whole; 
specifically  E&AM,  Estimating  and  Marketing  (highlighted  in  green).    The  department  towards  the 
bottom of the table that contain ‘n/a’ cannot be reported on, as they do not have any females within 
them  based  on  the  data  range  of  this  report.    This  further  highlights  the  gender  bias  within  the 
Engineering sector. 
 

Department 
Vital Energi – Overall pay gap 
Administration 
Commercial 
Design 
E&AM 
Engineering 
Estimating 
Finance 
Marketing 
Solutions 
Business Development 
Directors 
District Heating Engineering 
IT 
Operations & Maintenance 
Operatives 
Pre-fabrication 

 

Mean 
32.6% 
36.5% 
26.9% 
9.1% 
28.4% 
42.1% 
7.9% 
49.3% 
4.5% 
54.6% 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 

Median 
32% 
37.1% 
47.8% 
0.5% 
7.9% 
41.4% 
30.4% 
46.1% 
17.4% 
53.9% 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
Steps being taken to reduce Gender Pay Gap 
While Vital Energi realises that the gender pay gap between men and women in the engineering sector 
is industry-wide, there are several actions the company are/ will be taking to reduce this as much as 
possible.   
 
These are as follows: 
 

1.  As noted in the ‘causes’ section of this report, a gender pay gap can show the lack of female 
progression.  In order to combat this, we look to actively recruit women in all fields through 
different recruitment mediums, not just the traditional job boards. Over the past few years 
we have been working with local colleges, apprenticeships & careers fair at both Colleges & 
Universities  to  increase  our  selection  pool,  which  in  turn,  we  hope,  will  increase  our 
recruitment of females in the industry. 
 
We recognise and appreciate that our ‘people’ are key in achieving our business objectives. 
Our fundamental aim is to become the ‘Employer of Choice’ in the energy market. We ensure 
the correct recruitment tools are used when identifying and sourcing the right individuals.   
 
Over  recent  years,  we  have  continued  to  run  our  graduate  program,  with  many  of  the 
graduates progressing through the company in their respective departments.  We wanted to 
build on this success by using other means of attracting new talent and have found a great 
way of doing so is through career exhibitions.  We have had pronounced success at previous 
shows including Skills North West, Hackney Careers Fair and Liverpool University Careers Fair. 
Skills  North  West  was  held  at  Media  City  in  Manchester  and  was  aimed  at  apprenticeship 
recruitment,  with  the  majority  of  the  visitors  being  school  and  college  leavers.    Hackney 
Careers Fair was held at Hackney Community College, this was run in partnership with the 
College  to  attract  talent  from  college  students  and  the  local  community.    The  event  at 
Liverpool University was a graduate fair looking to attract graduates and undergraduates to 
our graduate scheme and work placement schemes.  
 
As previously mentioned, we have seen continued success from our annual graduate scheme 
over the last 6 years, with our average annual intake being around 6 graduates across various 
functions.    We  have  developed  a  3-year  training  program  combining  theory  with  practice 
within  our  Design  function  and  are  currently  working  on  a  similar  project  within  our 
Engineering  departments.  We  ensure  that  our  graduates  are  teamed  up  with  a  suitable 
mentor at the start of their employment. Objectives are set and a training plan is established, 
agreed and implemented for each participant for the duration of their training period (this 
could be anything from 1 to 3 years). Regular review meetings take place with their reporting 
manager and educational mentor, to ensure that targets/ objectives are being achieved in line 
with their training plan. 
 
Our aim  is by attracting young talent into the business,  and helping them to progress  and 
develop  their  personal  and  professional  skills,  we  will  move  away  from  the  stigma  of 
engineering  being  a  male  dominated  field  and  increase  the  number  of  females  within  the 
company.  Prior to 2016, the company only had male apprentices. We now have 3 females 
who we hope to promote and progress within their assigned departments. 

 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  We,  as  a  company,  are  aware  that  a  good  work-life  balance  is  important  to  both  men  & 
women.  Sometimes, flexibility within working hours, especially for working women, can be 
the difference  between being able to go out  to work and not.  Vital Energi recognises the 
importance  of  this.  Therefore,  in  2016  we  introduced  a  flexible  working  hours  approach 
throughout the Group.  This offers 6 different flexible working patterns to all employees.  This 
allows staff the ability to choose a working pattern that fits in with their lifestyles and personal 
commitments e.g. childcare, caring responsibilities,  etc. The flexible working patterns offer 
earlier  and  later  start  and  finish  times  to  try  and  help  accommodate  employee’s  personal 
circumstances and commitments outside of work.  
 
In addition to the ‘flexible working hours’ options, we also offer employees the opportunity 
to ‘buy & sell’ annual leave.  They are able to purchase up to 3 additional days’ leave and sell 
5 days’ leave. The idea behind this is again to assist with commitments out of work, such as 
childcare and caring, and to afford all members of staff a better work-life balance. 

3. 

4.  We are looking to promote women in engineering to try and raise awareness in line with the 
‘National  women  in  Engineering’  day.  On  23rd  June  each  year,  ‘International  Women  in 
Engineering’ Day is celebrated to focus on the great opportunities available for women in the 
engineering  industry.  An  article  from  our  marketing  department  has  been  included  in  this 
report as Appendix 1.  
 

5.  We are considering implementing ‘Equal opportunities training’ for managers. Our reasoning 
behind this is that it will allow us, a company, to attract and retain the best quality employees 
in  our  industry,  create  more  positive  working  relationships  throughout  and  enhance 
performance/ productivity within all department/ functions. We also believe it will reduce the 
risk (and cost) of possible legal action and allow our workforce as a whole to be treated fairly 
and consistently regardless of their sex.  

 
Vital  Energi  Utilities  Ltd  is  an  equal  opportunities  employer  that  is  opposed  to  all  forms  of 
discrimination and will select for employment, training and promotion on the basis of suitability for 
the  job  and/  or  merit.  No  employees  will  receive  less  favourable  treatment  than  another  on  the 
grounds  of  sex,  race,  colour,  age,  ethnic  or  national  origins,  political  affiliations,  religious  beliefs, 
marital status, physical disability or is disadvantaged by unjustifiable conditions or requirements.  We 
will continue to carry out pay and benefit audits at regular intervals, with our overall aim focusing on 
paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any of the other 
characteristics outlined above).   
 
The challenge in our organisation and across Great Britain is to eliminate any gender pay gap.  The 
company  endeavors  to  continue  with  the  actions  highlighted  above  to  help  improve  the  stigma 
attached  to  women  in  the  Engineering  industry.    We  will  continuously  review  and  adapt  our 
recruitment and selection processes where appropriate.  Any further initiatives will be reported in the 
annual statements on our website. 
 
I, Gary Fielding – Managing Director, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.  
 
Signed: 
 
Date 
 

16th March 2018 

 

 

 

 
 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 
 

 
Appendix 1:   News article (sourced on Vital Energi’s company website) 
 

 

International Women in Engineering Day 2017 

 

 

 

 

 
On 23rd June each year, International Women in Engineering day is celebrated to focus on the great 
opportunities available for women in the engineering industry. Vital regularly recruits across the UK 
and actively encourages women into the company, and this year, we have interviewed two of our 
female engineers to discuss their development and achievements and the opportunities that a career 
in  engineering  can  bring,  in  the  hope  that  we  can  motivate  and  encourage  more  women  into  the 
industry.  
 
Senior  Design  Engineer,  Gemma  McHugh,  (left) has  been  working  at  Vital  Energi  for  8  years  and 
originally  joined  as  a  Junior  Design  Engineer  with  two  years’  prior  experience.  Hayley  Kimberley, 
Project Manager, (right) has been with Vital Energi for less than a year but has been working in the 
engineering sector for 11 years. We spoke to both women about their careers and the opportunities 
they have been given and here is what they had to say. 
 
Why did you choose a career in engineering? 
Gemma: Choosing to do engineering in school wasn’t a straightforward or obvious choice for me. I 
chose engineering because I got satisfaction out of solving problems in Maths but I also liked seeing 
things come to life and develop through stages of design in Art. I decided that I wanted to build things 
(like the Lego I played with as a child) for a living so I figured engineering was the career for me.  
 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 
 

 

 

 

 
Hayley: I have always been creative and enjoyed working with my hands from a young age. I spent 
12 years as a service and repair gas safe engineer, which I loved, but decided I could push myself 
further as I liked solving problems and always loved the idea of running a job as a Project Manager. I 
went to university at the age of 28, and graduated with a first class degree in Civil and Infrastructure 
Engineering.  
 
What is the greatest thing you have achieved in your engineering career so far? 
Gemma: For me, it’s been great to start from a junior level and rise up through the ranks over the 
years whilst  becoming  a  Chartered  Engineer.  The  level  I  am  at  now  involves  leading  the  design  of 
complex projects for the University of Edinburgh with a close-knit team. I enjoy getting the most out 
of the relationships I’ve  built  over  the  past  number of years, working with the electrical, CAD and 
projects teams to get projects complete. Even though I sometimes feel like I know nothing, I definitely 
know more than I did 10 years ago!  
Hayley: Being the first female installation engineer in my region with my previous company, my first 
class degree while working 40-50 hours per week and being asked to be the Project Manager on a 
£28million renewable scheme. For 3 years, I worked for 7 days a week when I was studying but it is 
totally worth it now and I’m planning to do my masters in the next couple of years to try and become 
chartered. I’d also like to do an MBA in business as I’d like to work to becoming Project Director by 
the time I’m 40. That’s the goal anyway. 
 
What is the most exciting project you have worked on? 
Gemma: I am coming to completion of our latest University of Edinburgh project which is a district 
heating and cooling network for their veterinary campus. There were many challenges on this project 
including space for plant and the project itself has been quite technically complex. There have been 
many  elements  of  this  project  which  were  new  to  me  and  that  I’ve  learnt  throughout  the  design 
process. It has proven to me that there is always something new to learn and new ways I can develop 
throughout my career, but it has been a very interesting project to work on.  
Hayley: The Ram Quarter project that I’m currently on is the most exciting. It brings new challenges 
every day and there are so many elements  that  I’m looking after including; district  heating, risers, 
laterals, HIUs, adiabatic dry air coolers, chillers, CHPs, boilers, gas pipe, large distribution mains pipe, 
BMS, ventilation system. To be 32 and doing all this is amazing. I rise to every challenge and give 110% 
all the time no matter what pressures are upon me. I have a good team of sub-contractors that help 
and support me every day to deliver this job to the highest standard, and we have health and safety 
at the front of everything we do. 
 
What changes do you think could be made in schools to make engineering a more accessible career 
choice for women? 
Gemma: I  think  there  needs  to  be  more  awareness  in  schools  of  the  huge  variety  of  roles  that 
engineers can do by having lots of engagement with industry. In school, (and often in university), I 
remember not really having any idea what an engineer did as a job in everyday life. It’s usually quite 
obvious what a traditional female career like a nurse or teacher does but engineers can have so many 
different roles in many different industries that it can be difficult to understand. This is something that 
is not just an issue for females. I think there’s also a perception of engineering being too hard, and 
while it’s not easy, it can be rewarding and it’s definitely a career available to anyone with an interest 
in problem solving. Young children have such high ambitions and they believe they can do anything, 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

 
 

 

 

 

 
so I think it is really important to manage stereotypes while children are young to ensure girls aren’t 
scared of the word engineering and see the endless possibilities that this career can bring. 
Hayley: I went to an all-girls school and engineering as a career really wasn’t mentioned but I think 
the best way would be to advertise it in schools. If women from the industry visited and showed what 
they  can  achieve,  I  think  it  could  demonstrate  what  an  amazing  and  exciting  career  this  can  be. 
I am still early in my career but I work with women who have worked on the Shard and Westminster 
and there is even a female crane driver on this site, which is great to see. On site, it is massively male 
dominated and it can be tough at times as a women, personally I give as good as I get and show what 
I can do so gender is not an issue. Having a female opinion around the table can help massively, women 
just think differently and in construction, that is a huge benefit. 

 
Both Gemma and Hayley have touched on how engineering could be more accessible for everyone 
and have highlighted the various possibilities for women in engineering. 
 
Dave Wilkinson, our Associate Design Director, commented “Despite many initiatives to get women 
into engineering over the last few years, there is still a lack of female representation across the sector 
with only approximately 6% of registered professional engineers being women. At Vital we actively 
encourage and support women into all elements of our business and encourage all our engineers to 
become chartered if that is the route they are looking to pursue. I am happy to say that we are a well 
above that 6% figure, with 20% of registered (chartered) within our business, but we will continue to 
encourage women into these roles and improve upon that figure.” 
 
There are a wide range of opportunities available in all of our departments here at Vital, from design 
and project engineers to quantity surveyors and roles in the support function including metering & 
billing, HR and marketing. 
 
The more diverse the industry becomes, the more ideas will be available and these new perspectives 
will benefit everyone. We think that Gemma and Hayley are great role models to anyone wanting to 
pursue a career in this industry. They both agree that engineering can be extremely rewarding, and if 
you’re prepared to work hard then that hard work will pay off. 
 

*** End of news article *** 

 

 
 

Vital Energi Headquarters, Century House, Roman Road, Blackburn, Lancashire BB1 2LD 
t. 01254 296000   •   e. sales@vitalenergi.co.uk   •   w. vitalenergi.co.uk 

