 

Roedean School Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 
Background and Requirements 
 
Under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, all 
organisations with more than 250 employees are required to publish the difference in pay 
between their male and female employees. 
 
This Gender Pay Gap Report shows the difference between male and female average 
earnings, and is expressed as a percentage of male earnings.  
 
There are further key definitions for this report: 
The mean gender pay gap - the measure of the difference between the mean hourly rate 
of pay of male and female members of staff. 
The median gender pay gap – the measure of the difference between the median hourly 
rate of pay of male and female members of staff. 
 
Key Information 
 
The Report is based on data as at 5th April 2017 at which point Roedean employed 266 
full-pay relevant employees, of which 32% were male and 68% female. 
 

 
Gender Pay Gap - Mean 

Total 
8.3% 

Comment 

Significantly below national 

average 18.1% 

Gender Pay Gap - Median 

-15.8% 

Overall women are paid more 

than men reflecting the 

differing numbers and roles of 

men and women 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
Bonus Gender Pay Gap - Mean 
Bonus Gender Pay Gap - Median 
Proportion in receipt of bonus - Male 
Proportion in receipt of bonus - Female 

Total 
100% 
100% 

2% 
0% 

Comment 

Bonuses are non-contractual, 
and two male employees were 
paid bonuses during the year 

based on performance. 

 
Upper Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 
Total 

Female 

65% 
78% 
61% 
70% 
68% 

Male 
35% 
22% 
39% 
30% 
32% 

Roedean School, Roedean Way, Brighton   BN2 5RQ 

Tel: 02173 667512    -    bursar@roedean.co.uk   -    Registered Charity 307063 

 

 
Commentary 
 
Roedean School is committed to being inclusive as we see the diverse population of both 
pupils and staff as one of the School’s greatest strengths. In order to ensure everyone can 
thrive and meet their full potential it is essential that inclusion and equality of opportunity 
be at the core of all the School’s activities, including pay and terms and conditions. 
 
The data above reflects the fact that the School’s Gender Pay Gap is significantly lower 
than the UK average for all employees which is 18.1%. In addition, the proportion of 
males and females across each quartile is relatively stable indicating that the roles are 
awarded evenly. 
 
The School operates incremental pay scales for both teaching and support staff, and 
these scales take account of seniority of role, experience, professional performance and 
contribution to school life above and beyond one’s role. This system ensures that roles are 
awarded evenly at all levels, and equal rates are payable irrespective of gender or other 
characteristics. The rates of pay are regularly reviewed against national averages via 
participation in research and surveys. 
 
There are no contractual bonus payments, with any bonuses being awarded on the basis 
of recognition of performance, and in the twelve month period to 5th April 2017 only two 
members of staff were awarded bonuses, both of which were male. In the previous twelve 
month period four bonuses were awarded, two male and two female, so the pay gap in 
that year was 0%. 
 
Actions to address the Gender Pay Gap 
 
In order to ensure that the Gender Pay Gap remains at a low level, and with the target of 
reducing even further, the School will continue to ensure equality of pay and opportunity, 
and review its pay structures in line with best practice. The School will always recruit the 
best individual for a role, regardless of gender or any other qualities, and promote a 
positive gender balance for all appointments. 
 
Declaration 
 
I confirm that the calculations accurately reflect the School’s position as at 5th April 2017, 
and comply with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Information) 
Regulations 2017. 
 
 
 
Rogers Sanders OBE  
Chair of Council 
 
 

Roedean School, Roedean Way, Brighton   BN2 5RQ 

Tel: 02173 667512    -    bursar@roedean.co.uk   -    Registered Charity 307063 

 

