                   Services  Refrigeration Services -  Arcus  Mechanical  Electrical  HVAC  Lighting  Drainage  Renewables  Management  Building  Soft Services ﻿ About  Strategy  Board  Vision & Values  Awards  Academy  Health, Safety, Quality & Environment  Modern slavery and human trafficking statement. ﻿ Media Centre  News  Blogs  Press Releases  Media Tool Kit ﻿ Careers  Learning & Development ﻿ Contact            Services  Refrigeration Services -  Arcus  Mechanical  Electrical  HVAC  Lighting  Drainage  Renewables  Management  Building  Soft Services ﻿     About   Strategy  Board  Vision & Values  Awards  Academy  Health, Safety, Quality & Environment  Modern slavery and human trafficking statement.      Media  News  Blogs  Press Releases  Media Tool Kit      Careers  Learning & Development      Contact Us                  Arcus Solutions Limited Gender Pay Gap Report              Menu  Contact Us            Arcus Solutions Limited Gender Pay Gap Report 2017        « Back to reports   Arcus Solutions Limited (ASL) is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. This is the report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. The mean gender pay gap for ASL is 35.2%. The median gender pay gap for ASL is 38.1%. The mean gender bonus gap for ASL is 43.4%. The median gender bonus gap for ASL is 43.9%. The proportion of male colleagues in ASL receiving a bonus is 89.5% and the proportion of female colleagues receiving a bonus is 93.3%. Pay quartiles by gender Band Males Females Description A 73.0% 27.0% Includes all colleagues whose standard hourly rate places them in the lower quartile B 98.4% 1.6% Includes all colleagues whose standard hourly rate places them in the lower middle quartile C 100.0% 0.0% Includes all colleagues whose standard hourly rate places them in the upper middle quartile D 98.4% 1.6% Includes all colleagues whose standard hourly rate places themin the upper quartile The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. What are the underlying causes of ASL’s gender pay gap? Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: the same or broadly similar work; work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or work of equal value. ASL is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all colleagues, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of paying colleagues equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As such, it: carries out pay and benefits reviews at regular intervals; evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. ASL is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is a result of the industry in which it operates. ASL are an engineering organisation with specialisms in refrigeration, mechanical & electrical engineering, gas, drainage and biomass. In the UK, women make up just 8% of the total number of engineers (according to the August 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey on Employment by Occupation figures). With a nationwide shortage of females in these occupations, this typically results in their absence throughout some of the pay quartiles. Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles while women are more likely than men to be in roles at the lower end of the pay scales. Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is also reflected in the make-up of ASL’s workforce. The table depicting ASL’s pay quartiles by gender shows the workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of colleagues (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each Band. Within ASL, female colleagues make up 25.7% of the total workforce with the majority represented in Band A. This band contains the office based support teams who work on the helpdesk and schedule work to our engineering teams. However, the percentage of male colleagues is greater in each of the higher earning bands. A further factor that influences the earnings spread of the population of ASL, is the structure of the overall organisation. The central support functions for this business are employed within a corporate structure that is outside this legal entity. This group of employees is not engineering dominated, so does have a smaller gender pay gap as it encompasses a wider variety of roles. Our central support services are held in Arcus Facilities Management Limited which can be seen has a lower gender pay gap. How does ASL’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? The majority of organisations currently have a gender pay gap. The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the November 2016 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.5%. At 35.2%, we recognise that in ASL our pay gap is significantly higher. The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the November 2016 ONS ASHE figures) is 19.2%. At 38.1%, ASL’s median gender pay gap is at a higher level to the whole economy. The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender bonus gap for ASL currently stand at 43.3% and 43.9%. This is to be expected as our bonus scheme is based on a % of basic earnings and our quartile data shows that we have more males than females in the higher earning quartiles. The proportion of men at ASL who received a bonus in the 12 months up to 5 April 2017 was 89.5%,
while for women this was 93.3%. Our current bonus schemes are very inclusive and all colleagues
within scope of the ASL bonus scheme, regardless of gender or job role, have equal access to the
scheme which is reflected in these numbers. What is ASL doing to address its gender pay gap? ASL recognise that females are underrepresented in the total workforce and is committed to doing everything it can to address this, and hence reduce the gender pay gap. However, the organisation also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career or lifestyle choices that they make. To date, the steps that Arcus ASL has taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce include the following: Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities for action, we are introducing increased data collection and collation to understand: the proportions of men and women being recruited; the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions; the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for leaving; the numbers of men and women in each role and pay levels take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation; the proportion of men and women who return to their original job after a period of maternity or other parental leave; and the proportion of men and women still in post a year on from a return to work after a period of maternity or other parental leave. Flexible working policy: Our Flexible Working Policy has been revised to make it clear that colleagues in all areas and levels of the organisation will be considered for flexible working regardless of their role and level of seniority, and that flexible working need not be limited to part-time working. Talent Programmes: Arcus ASL has a well-established Talent Programme. Involvement in this programme will be monitored for diversity and will be one of the opportunities to address under representation of females at middle and senior levels as appropriate. Sponsorship Programme: Arcus ASL also has a long standing Sponsorship Programme. This programme is open to all colleagues wishing to apply for funding for additional qualifications or training for their career development. Again, applications for the programme will be monitored for diversity and will be a further opportunity to support female colleagues to develop their career, The challenge of the gender pay gap is complex and there is no straight forward or rapid solution but Arcus ASL have a number of initiatives to work towards eliminating the gender pay gap. None of these initiatives in isolation will remove the gender pay gap and it may be several years before the full impact is clearly evident. In the meantime, Arcus ASL is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. I, Chris Green, Chief Executive Officer confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.   « Back to reports      © 2018 Arcus Solutions (Holdings) Limited Enterprise House, 168 – 170 Upminster Road, Upminster, Greater London RM14 2RB, United Kingdom. Reg No. 07417126.     Reports   Disclaimer   Accessibility   Privacy Policy   Anti-Bribery Policy   Contact Us                           