Welcome to Shuropody Clinic Go to shop Back to shop  MENU Home Women’s Footwear Womens Shoes Womens Boots Womens Slippers Womens Sandals Womens Wide Fit Footwear Men’s Footwear Mens Shoes Mens Sandals Mens Boots Mens Slippers Mens Wide Fit Footwear New Arrivals Brands Rieker Josef Seibel FitFlop Shuropody Earth Spirit Strive Vionic View All Sale Footcare Conditions Athlete’s Foot Bunions Calluses Corns Cracked Heels Diabetes Hammer Toes Plantar Fasciitis Problem Toenails Verrucas Treatments Biomechanical Assessments Cryotherapy Custom Orthotics Do you suffer with diabetes? Gait Analysis Nail Surgery Sports Injuries Book an Appointment    Your new podiatry path starts here!  View current jobs Careers at Shuropody Who are Shuropody? Having opened our first practice in 2008, we are the UK’s leading private provider of Podiatry and Chiropody, offering 109 clinics nationwide serving more than 240,000 patients each year. Our People In delivering our mission ‘to provide our patients with an outstanding foot care experience’ we have over 118 qualified Podiatrists who, as well as providing overall foot care advice, offer our patients a range of treatments, including; podiatry/chiropody services, biomechanical assessments, custom made orthotics, cryotherapy and nail surgery. We also employ a number of Foot Health Practitioners who undertake training to recognise, assess and treat commonly occurring foot conditions. Each and every one of our practices has a team of foot health experts from our Podiatrists, Foot Health Practitioners and Foot Care Assistants who are passionate about your foot health, with a wealth of knowledge about podiatry/chiropody services, orthotics, comfort footwear and foot care products for a complete foot health service. Some of Our Latest Vacancies Podiatrist Trentham Full Time Podiatrist Leicester Full Time Podiatrist York Part Time Podiatrist Stockton Part Time Podiatrist Sutton Full Time Senior Podiatrist Manchester Full Time Podiatrist Hull Part Time Experienced Podiatrist Ilford Full Time Podiatrist Glasgow Part Time Podiatrist Colchester Full Time  Find vacancies near you "I'm proud to work for Shuropody, it truly is a job role where you can determine your own destiny" Be a Part of Our Vision Are you qualified or due to become qualified as a Podiatrist? Then what are you waiting for? Be a part of our vision to be the leading provider of footcare and experience the benefits. Don’t just take our word. Key Benefits Flexible working hours within practice Relocation package - if you want to move to another location or transfer, we can offer support to make this happen A competitive salary linking in with career progression E-learning tool for CPD purposes Refer a friend scheme - refer a qualified and registered friend to a Podiatry role and you will earn up to £1,000 Fantastic employee discount of 30% and 50% on workwear Employee benefits such as Cycle to work scheme and charity partnerships Our top tips when applying - it is as simple as: Upload your CV and enclose a covering letter to tell us about you Email attachments to recruitment@shuropody.com with your location of interest Confirm your HCPC number or tell us if you’re a student - we can give you some extra tips when you apply for your HCPC registration Don’t worry if a particular opportunity is not available at the time of applying. We will add you to our database and contact you first when a suitable role becomes available. Finally do not forget that you can call our HR Team anytime on 02476 937398 and we will be more than happy to talk through any opportunities that may be of interest.  View Available Jobs Shuropody Clinic Podiatry Appointments Customer Service Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Careers Careers at Shuropody Find a vacancy Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 © 2018 Shuropody Clinic. All Rights Reserved. 