GENDER PAY 
GAP REPORT
2017

APRIL 2016 - APRIL 2017 RESULTS

MARCH 2018

    1

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Contents

03 

The Background

05   Gender Pay and Equal Pay

06  

Clarksons Gender Pay Gap

10  

Understanding Our Pay Gap

11  

13  

Taking Action

Clarksons and WISTA

John Beckwith | Director, Human Resources
 

               

I confirm that the figures in our disclosure are accurate and have been calculated in  
ccordance with gender pay gap reporting requirements as outlined in the  
legislation and accompanying guidance.

www.clarksons.com

    2

The Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
The Background

In 2016, the Government finalised a new set of regulations 
which require companies with more than 250 UK employees 
to analyse and publish their gender pay gap on an annual 
basis. With over 450 employees in the UK,  H. Clarkson and 
Company Limited is covered by these new requirements and 
we are happy to support this important piece of legislation. 

Under the legislation, we are required to report annually on: 

•  Differences in mean and median pay between all male and female employees;
•  Differences in mean and median bonus pay between all male and female employees;
•  Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus; and
•  Distribution of men and women between pay band quartiles.

    3

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

A few points to note:

All analysis must be 
based on a snapshot 
of our employees and 
pay practice on the 5th 
April each year and must 
be published within 12 
months of this date. 

The analysis is based 
on hourly rates of pay 
so we have looked at 
employment contracts and 
working arrangements 
to ensure that we are 
comparing like with like.

The bonus analysis is based on payments received in the 
12 months leading up to the snapshot date of 5th April. As 
bonuses are paid with respect to the year to December, there 
are individuals (e.g. joiners after 1 January 2017) who were not 
eligible for a bonus.

In addition to publishing 
our report on our website 
we are also required 
to submit our pay gap 
numbers to a government 
website which anyone can 
access to look at the data 
for individual organisations 
or by particular sectors. 
You can access this site 
through the following link

 https://gender-pay-gap.
service.gov.uk/Viewing/
search-results

    4

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Pay and Equal Pay

It should be remembered that gender pay gap is 
not the same as equal pay. 
Under the UK’s equal pay regulations, it has been 
unlawful for many years to differentiate pay for work 
of ‘equal value’ based on a job holder’s gender. 
The gender pay gap regulations are very different 
and look at average pay comparisons by gender 
across the entire UK workforce.

    5

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Clarksons Gender Pay Gap 

Our analysis is based on the employees in H. Clarkson 
and Company Limited, our qualifying entity under the 
gender pay gap regulations.

The following data provides the Mean and Median 
gender pay gaps in accordance with the gender pay 
gap regulations. 

The information on the right shows our overall mean 
and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates 
of pay on the snap-shot date of 5th April 2017. It also 
shows the mean and median bonus pay gaps based 
on all bonuses received in the 12 months leading up 
to the 5th April 2017.

Our employees

Hourly Pay Gap

Bonus Pay Gap

73%

27%

36%

Median (Middle)

64%

Median (Middle)

Gender Ratio

Mean (Average) = 35%

Mean (Average) = 82%

    6

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

How is the gender pay gap calculated?

Hourly Pay Gap
is calculated by taking the 
pay at the snapshot date, 
5th April 2017, for each 
employee and dividing 
by the number of hours 
worked. 

Median Hourly Pay Gap
is calculated by listing the 
hourly pay for male and 
female employees in order 
and taking the middle 
hourly pay of each gender. 
Each median is then 
compared to calculate the 
percentage as detailed on 
page 6.

Mean Hourly Pay Gap
is calculated by taking the sum of all the 
hourly pay amounts of each gender 
divided by the number of employees in 
each category. A positive percentage in the 
table above indicates the male mean hourly 
pay being greater than the female mean, 
a negative percentage when the female 
hourly pay is greater than the male. 

Bonus Pay Gap
is calculated by taking the total bonus 
received by each employee in the 12 
months leading up to the 5th April 2017. 
The mean and median Bonus Pay Gap 
percentage is calculated using the same 
method as for the Hourly Pay Gap.

www.clarksons.com

    7

The Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus.
 
The following charts show the proportion of employees receiving a bonus during the 12 months 
preceding the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 – both for eligible employees and all employees 
employed at this date.

Proportion of all employees 

receiving a bonus

Proportion of eligible employees 

receiving a bonus

Male = 90% | Female = 86% 

Male = 96%  | Female = 96% 

When looking at those employees who were eligible to receive a bonus (i.e. joined prior to the end  
of the qualifying period, 31st December 2016, or were not on notice), the same proportion of male 
and female employees received bonuses. For both groups of eligible employees, the proportion  
who received a bonus was 96%.

    8

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Clarksons Quartile Gender Split

To calculate the gender split within the pay quartiles, all hourly pay rates are listed from low to high 
and the list is then divided into four groups with an equal number of employees in each. 

The gender split in the resulting four groups is then analysed.

58.4%

41.6%

63.4%

36.6%

80.5%

88.4%

19.5%

11.6%

Lower Quartile
of hourly pay

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

of hourly pay

of hourly pay

Upper Quartile
of hourly pay

    9

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Understanding Our Pay Gap

At Clarksons, people are our business 
and we pride ourselves on the level of 
diversity and cultural richness of our 
workforce. It was therefore important for 
us that we did further analysis of the data 
presented in this report to ensure we 
have an in-depth understanding of our 
own context.

Our pay gap is a reflection of the make-up of our workforce. Two things which are 
apparent in the quartile analysis are the comparatively small number of women in our 
business and the comparatively small number of women at higher levels in our business. 

When looking at areas within the business where there is greater female representation 
in the pool of candidates to choose from, the median hourly pay gap drops to 16%, 
which is lower than the national median hourly pay gap of 18%. Our mean hourly pay 
gap drops to 14%.

ONS analysis of employment by sector 2017

The low numbers of women in the Upper Quartile, where the average length of service 
is 13 years, has had a large impact on the overall results. When analysing the Lower and 
Lower Middle quartiles where there are higher numbers of women as a proportion of 
the workforce, the hourly pay gap drops to 2%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Men and woman shown as a % of total

Transport and Storage

UK Private Sector

73%
73%

27%
27%

80%
80%

20%
20%

58%
58%

42%
42%

Clarksons

These challenges are not unique to our business; they are common within our sector. The 
talent pool that we recruit from is overwhelmingly made up of men and our workforce 
reflects this, as women only represent around 27% of our employee base. Whilst this 
number is well below the national gender mix for the private sector, it is well above the 
average for our own sector. Our analysis shows that this number has increased over the 
past 10 years (21% in 2007, 25% in 2012 and 27% in 2017) and continues to increase. 

    10

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Taking action

Our analysis has highlighted that we are subject to the same 
challenges as the wider sector in regard to attracting, recruiting 
and retaining women. Although we have delivered a more 
positive average gender split in our employee base than the 
sector as a whole, we recognise that this is not good enough. As 
a leader in our industry, we intend to take further action to help 
address the gender imbalance throughout our organisation. 

We recognise that there is no immediate fix. It will not be possible to deliver 
a more balanced workforce overnight. We expect that it will take a number 
of years before we start to see the impact of decisions we make today.

The quality of our people has always been a differentiating factor for 
us in the market and we will not compromise on the intent to continue 
bringing in and developing the very best people and putting them into 
a role and an environment where they can thrive and perform. 

Our focus will instead be on the following activities to help 
deliver more of a gender balance in our workforce whilst 
ensuring our ongoing focus on quality and excellence.

    11

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Ensuring that the benefits of working in the shipping sector, and for Clarksons in particular, are clear and are made increasingly accessible by:

Targeting a broader range 
of recruitment events,

not just those traditionally 
associated with the 
shipping/maritime sectors. 
By extending our recruiting 
activities, utilising social 
media and advertising in 
places that are reached by 
both men and women, 
we will help more 
people understand our 
organisation. 

More representation  
of women, 
in recruitment marketing 
and on our careers 
website. 

Using female role models to promote 
opportunities within Clarksons. 
We have many women who are influential 
figures within our business and our sector 
due to their accomplishments. Their success 
stories serve as a powerful recruitment 
message about what can be achieved. We 
will ensure that our role models are actively 
involved in hosting seminars, speaking at 
careers events and offering advice in order 
to inspire other women to pursue a career in 
our organisation. 

Including a diversity statement in advertised 
vacancies, 
that emphasises our stance on creating a 
diverse workplace (i.e. comprising anti-
discrimination and equal opportunity 
employment policy).

    12

www.clarksons.comThe Background    |    Gender Pay and Equal Pay    |    Clarksons Gender Pay Gap    |    Understanding Our Pay Gap    |    Taking Action    |    Clarksons and WISTA

Gender Pay Gap 
Clarksons and WISTA

We are delighted to confirm that we work with WISTA. 
(Women’s International Shipping and Trading Association  http://www.wista.net/) 

Our collaborative relationship with WISTA means that we 
host events and implement recruitment initiatives in order 
to encourage more women to grow and develop their 
careers in our sector. 

Closing the gender pay gap and ensuring that we (and the wider sector) have more of a gender 
balanced and representative workforce is going to take time but we are committed to the journey and 
willing participants in the gender reporting regulations. We will continue to invest and spend time and 
effort in ensuring our organisation continues to thrive moving forward and ensuring that we continue to 
deliver an outstanding experience to our clients and our employees.

    13

www.clarksons.com