P
A
G
Y 
A
R  P

E

G E N D

7

1

0

RT 2

O
P
E
R

GENDER PAY GAP STATEMENT 2017

FM Conway is committed to be an employer of choice where everyone is 
recognised for the contribution they make to our business and the diversity 
of our workforce is vital to maximise our company’s performance.  

Fairness, inclusion and respect are central tenets of our business operation 
– as we believe that creating an environment where people can work, grow 
and succeed irrespective of their gender or any other attribute is vital to 
our success.

We can demonstrate our commitment to equal pay, however we do have a 
gender pay gap.  This gap is reflective of industry norms – there are fewer 
women in senior positions and fewer women in our sector as a whole.  

We are working to increase the number of women entering our industry 
and our business in particular; we have made progress – for example, in the 
last two years our female employee population has increased by just under 
37%.  We acknowledge, however, that there is much still to do and have 
created an action plan to include involvement in STEM programmes for 
women, a work experience week for young women and curriculum activity 
to promote careers in our sector for women.

I  confirm  that  the  gender  pay  gap  data  contained  in  this  report  for  FM 
Conway Ltd is accurate and has been produced in accordance with the 
guidance  on  managing  gender  pay  developed  by  the  Arbitration  and 
Conciliation Service (ACAS).

JOANNE GARWOOD
Director of Central Services

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

INTRODUCTION:
At FM Conway Ltd, we believe in creating a diverse and gender balanced workforce 
which reflects our customers and the communities we serve. By caring, developing, 
encouraging and empowering our great people, to deliver great work.

GENDER PAY & BONUS PAY:

Difference Between 
Males and Females

Gender Pay Gap01*

Gender Bonus Pay Gap02*

PAY QUARTILES:01*

Mean

(average)

16.25%

41.33%

Median
(middle)

17.73%

42.84%

01* As of 5th April 2017 | 02* In 12 months proceeding 5th April 2017

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES 
RECEIVING BONUS:02*

53.61%

M

F

55.86%

LOWER 
QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE 

QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE 

QUARTILE

UPPER 
QUARTILE

Bonus Received

No Bonus Received

78.9%
21.1%

91.3%
8.7%

92.9%
7.1%

93.8%
6.2%

Proportion of males 
and females in each pay 
quartile - each quartile 
contains 323 employees

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

UNDERSTANDING THE GAP:

We are confident that we have equal pay for work of 
equal value.  Our gender pay gap exists due to the 
difference in overall pay for men and women across 
our business and an unequal distribution of men and 
women across the company rather than a distinction 
in reward between genders for the same work.

FM Conway’s pay gap is strongly influenced by the 
gender and salaries of our operational community – 
which is 73.9% of our workforce and a predominantly 
male  population.    This  part  of  our  team,  by  nature 
of their jobs, receive shift premium payments which 
result in an elevated gender pay gap.  This situation 
has  been  compounded  by  our  company  bonus 
scheme;  whilst  gender  neutral,  it  has  historically 
been  split  between  our  operational  and  support 
teams  with  higher  rewards  being  attained  by  the 
operational bonus scheme members.

In  addition,  we  have  a  management  team  which 
is  male  in  the  majority  and  this  is  a  factor  which 
underpins the differential in average pay and bonus 
between men and women.

WORKFORCE DYNAMICS:

OPERATIONS

SUPPORT

MANAGEMENT

98.0%
2.0%

36.5%
63.5%

89.9%
10.1%

OVERALL

WORKFORCE

89.2%
10.8%

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

HOW WE WILL MAKE A DIFFERENCE:

1.  Building a pipeline for the future 

We are encouraging girls and young women to consider construction and engineering as a career by extending our schools education programme, 
establishing our first work experience for women week and ensuring our undergraduate sponsorship programme includes women.

2.  Promoting fair and inclusive recruitment practices

We  will  ensure  our  career  opportunities  are  advertised  in  a  gender-neutral  manner  and  all  of  our  selection  is  undertaken  by  trained  hiring 
managers, who have an open attitude to working flexibly and enabling women to achieve success in our core businesses.

3.  Supporting learning and retention

We will continue to implement a fairness, inclusion and respect training programme to promote understanding of and respect for difference in 
our teams across the business.  We will extend our flexible working practices and our return-ship programme to our operational teams.  We also 
intend to establish a network of women in our business to promote mentoring and career development.

4.  Rewarding success

We have made changes in our bonus schemes to promote equality of reward across gender and will take steps to ensure that success is rewarded 
equally through both recognition and remuneration.

5.  Committing to our people

We will establish a charter detailing our current commitments to our people and our aims to increase women in our business and our sector.

