Gender Pay Gap Reporting

The below stats show our overall mean and median gender pay gap, along with the mean and median difference in bonuses paid to men 
and women. Results are based on the 12 month period previous to the point of analysis on 5th April, 2017.

Hourly Pay

Bonus

Quartile by gender

Mean
21%

Median
17%

Mean
43%

Median
44%

Mean figure = the difference between the average of men’s and women’s pay    
Median figure = the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of men’s and women’s pay

Lower
Lower middle
Upper middle
Upper

Female
65%
61%
55%
42%

Male
35%
39%
45%
58%

On 5th April 2017, all UK PageGroup employees were employed either by Michael Page International Recruitment (MPIR), or Michael Page 
Holdings (MPH). MPIR comprised of UK sales operation heads, operational directors, fee earners, team support staff and PAYE temps 
(Median pay gap – 13% and Mean pay gap – 18%). MPH comprised of support staff and non-operational directors, including members 
of the Executive Committee who are resident in the UK (Median pay gap – 38% and Mean pay gap – 38%). During 2017 the UK business 
was restructured, resulting in all employees now being employed by Michael Page International Recruitment. The numbers above show the 
consolidated position within PageGroup.

The pay gap at PageGroup exists for a number of reasons. As the organisation is headquartered in the UK, several Executive Board 
members are on the UK payroll and therefore included in the UK figures. There is also a lower proportion of women holding the firm’s most 
senior roles, an issue the group has been working hard to address for a number of years.

“The results are broadly in line with our expectations and we do recognise that, 
despite our equal pay policy, there is a pay gap. For a number of years we have 
been implementing new measures to ensure we are combatting the gap and 
developing our female talent across the business, which we will continue to do 
in the future.” 

Kieron Rathe, Group HR Director

Our results are a reflection of the considerable strategic focus by PageGroup in terms of Diversity & Inclusion, with a particular focus on 
gender diversity. Our D&I gender strategy covers 3 key areas – Workforce, Workplace, and Marketplace. All of our objectives are aligned to 
these areas, as well as our broader business and talent objectives, considering:

•  How we hire: focus on behaviours and diverse media   
•  Our culture: D&I training for all people managers/leaders
•  Engaging with our clients: learning from them and sharing what we do

Our specific activity has included: 

Partnership with

Launch of
Women@
in 2012

Page

has seen maternity return 

rates increase from

76% to 87%

Launch of  

Dynamic Working 

in 2017

As part of Women@Page, we have been running a successful mentoring 
programme since 2012.

Female mentors have 
increased from  

Female mentees have  

increased from  

4 to 
19

(2012-date)

40 to 
220

(2012-date)

“Having a mentor scheme 
is extremely useful, as it 
has allowed me to find a 
much more senior person 
in the business to relate to, 
that I might not have had 
access to before.” 

Liz Campion, Director,  
Page Executive

We have also won a number of awards, including the HR Excellence 2017 – Diversity & Inclusion award, along with three awards from 
enei – Private Sector, Inclusive Culture, and, Team of the Year

Whilst we are delighted with the progress we have made with Gender Diversity in the UK over recent years, we recognise that we still have 
more work to do on eliminating any gender pay gap.

“The organic nature of our business, with senior employees almost always being 
promoted from within, means addressing our gender pay gap will take time. 

We have however been actively working on this, as shown by an increase in our 
female Director population in the UK from 29% at the end of 2013, to 41% by 
the end of 2017.

We will continue to build upon this and place a strong emphasis on our Gender 
Diversity strategy.”

Kieron Rathe, Group HR Director

