First State Investments I Our Gender Pay Report

Diversity of thought is a critical part of our global business strategy

We recognise that a more diverse 
workforce is important for the 
continued development of First 
State Investments; we need to 
attract, employ, retain and develop 
individuals who bring a wide range 
of perspectives, encourage new 
and different ways of thinking, 
challenge each other and at  
times challenge the established 
status quo.
  

this report discloses the gender pay figures for 
the First State Investments business based in 
the UK. It also provides some additional data 
for our UK employee base, aligned to what we 
have previously provided on a global basis.

We need to attract, 
employ, retain and 
develop individuals 
who bring a wide range 
of perspectives and 
encourage new and 
different ways of thinking.

Gender diversity is an essential part of this 
strategy and remains our priority but we 
also believe other aspects of diversity - social 
background, disability, and ethnicity for 
example – to be important in ensuring we 
have a broad range of skills, experiences and 
perspectives within our organisation.   
In April 2017, the UK Government introduced 
legislation that requires UK organisations with 
more than 250 employees to publish gender 
pay analysis.
In 2015, we published global diversity statistics 
for the first time; we believe as part of our 
commitment to achieving better levels of 
diversity, it is important to be transparent about 
our position and progress. 
The new UK driven legislation requires us 
to publish and consider a different set of 
metrics, specifically relating to the gap that 
exists between pay for men and women 
when considered as two gender groups. This 
legislation is a specific UK requirement and so 

2

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportThe difference between ‘equal pay’ and ‘gender pay’

From an equal pay 
perspective, we are 
confident that gender 
is not a factor in 
determining pay.

It is important to understand 
that ‘gender pay’ measurement 
is different from ‘equal pay’. 
Equal pay refers to paying men 
and women the same for doing 
similar work or work of equivalent 
value. Gender pay measurement 
compares the average pay by 
gender of all roles collectively, 
regardless of level or type.

From an equal pay perspective, we are 
confident that gender is not a factor in 
determining pay. 
When looking at gender pay, there are marked 
differences in the overall average pay for men 
and women. We know these differences stem 
from the overall structure of our industry and 
of our organisation: 
–  We have fewer women in senior leadership 

positions and in senior investment 
management roles, both of which offer 
higher than average pay packages. Our 
gender breakdown figures that follow our pay 
analysis illustrate this point. 

–  We have more women in part-time roles, 

which causes the average for women’s bonus 
pay to be lower than men’s average pay (the 
statistics provided are based on actual pay, 
rather than full time equivalent pay).

It is important for us to review and reflect on 
this data and information to ensure that we 
are on the right path to improving the shape 
and balance of our organisation from a gender 
diversity perspective. 

3

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportGender pay analysis for First State Investments

The figures shown opposite are 
required by legislation for every 
UK business with more than 
250 employees. They show the 
difference in base pay and bonus 
pay between males and females 
when looking at all roles, regardless 
of level or type; as well as the 
proportion of male and females 
who were paid a bonus.

Base remuneration and bonus pay

Difference in base pay between male and female 
employees (based on hourly pay)
Difference in bonus pay between male and female 
employees

Mean
33.7%

81.5%

Median
30.8%

57.2%

Proportion of 
male and female 
employees who 
received a bonus

 
 

    

81.2%

      

79.1%

The table below shows the proportion of males and females in quartile bands according to base  
pay, with upper quartile representing the highest paid and lower quartile being the lowest paid.

Upper Quartile 
Second Quartile 
Third Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Male
75.3 %
65.5 %
51.3 %
39.4 %

Female
24.7 %
34.5 %
48.7 %
60.6%

All data covers the period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017 and has been calculated according to the requirements 
of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

We know that our gender 
pay differences stem from 
having fewer women in 
senior management and 
senior investment roles 
and that more women 
work on a part time basis.

4

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportGender diversity analysis by role

The statistics below provide further insights into the structure of our business and provide helpful 
context against which to consider our gender pay analysis. From this, we can see a clear link 
between our gender pay gap and the number of male and female employees working in different 
roles, and at different levels, in our organisation. 

Our overall picture of gender diversity across First State Investments

Total organisation

 
Management/Executive Committee

  65%

  35%

 
Senior professionals

  68%

  32%

 
Investment management professionals

  70%

  30%

44%

56%

5

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportWe are committed to improving diversity

The policies and programmes 
currently in place to support 
diversity and specifically gender 
balance are set out here. We 
believe that through this focus, we 
will see meaningful change over 
time and a reduction in the gender 
pay gap. We will present and 
review our statistics annually.
Creating an inclusive environment, 
where individuals feel that they 
can be themselves and fulfil 
their potential is essential for our 
business to achieve increased levels 
of diversity.

Recruitment and Onboarding
We request gender balanced shortlists for all 
recruitment. A female employee is required 
to interview all prospective candidates if not 
already part of the interview panel. We have 
introduced ‘name blinding’ on incoming CVs 
in parts of our business so that the applicant’s 
gender is not visible to hiring managers and 
we develop role profiles in a more general and 
accessible way to reflect gender neutrality. 
This will be extended more widely throughout 
2018 and beyond. People joining our business 
are made aware of our Diversity and Inclusion 
commitment through the recruitment and 
on-boarding process to ensure that they 
understand our culture and are able to 
effectively contribute to it.

 Support for parents
We recognise the important role parents play 
in our society and the particular needs they 
have in starting or growing their family. We 
endeavour to support our employees and their 
parental responsibilities by offering a parental 
leave programme that is gender neutral. A 
parental coaching programme is on offer for 
both primary and secondary carers; this aims to 
support return to work, managing a career as a 
working parent and the balance between work 
and home life.

Flexible working
The way in which we consider and approach 
flexible working is an important factor in 
demonstrating our commitment to diversity 
and creating an inclusive culture. People at 
First State Investments are valued on the 
contribution they make to our business. From 
our own experience, a strong flexible working 
culture can be an important factor in retaining 
and attracting individuals into roles at all levels. 
Flexible working options are on offer to all 
employees although the percentage take up at 
this stage is weighted to females.
Flexible working is not seen as a barrier to 
recruitment to senior positions or progression 
to senior roles.
We offer flexible working arrangements such as 
part-time employment, regular working from 
home days and flexible working hours. Ad hoc 
flexibility is considered usual business practice.

Unconscious bias training
We provide unconscious bias training for all 
UK employees. This training can help to make 
people aware of the biases that they may hold 
without realising the unintended impacts these 
may have on working relationships and the 
career development of others. This not only 
considers biases from a gender perspective, 
but also considers ethnicity, age, disability and 
other factors. 

As investors
We encourage the companies we invest in on 
behalf of our clients to achieve greater gender 
diversity, increase the quality of decision 
making and deliver sustainable and attractive 
long-term investment returns.  It is for all the 
same reasons that First State Investments takes 
the current gender imbalance seriously and 
continues to try to tackle it.  
We actively seek companies that we believe 
will deliver superior long-term performance for 
our clients and believe that greater diversity is 
an important factor in companies’ corporate 
decision making and long-term success.

6

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportOther diversity and inclusion initiatives

In the UK, we have a number of initiatives in place to support our broader diversity and inclusion objectives. 

Future AS5ET Conference
In 2017, recognising that an insufficient 
number of women are encouraged into 
the investment industry at the outset 
of their career, we organised a one-day 
conference for 400+ 15-16 year old 
female pupils.  The conference was 
hosted in Edinburgh, opened by the First 
Minister of Scotland, with patron, Jayne-
Anne Gadhia of Virgin Money and many 
other speakers underlining the fact that 
gender should never be seen as a barrier 
to progressing in any chosen career.   

View online here

Enabling Enterprise
Through our charitable foundation, 
we support Enabling Enterprise, a 
social enterprise that aims to equip 
children and young people in the UK 
with skills, experiences, attitudes and 
aspirations to help them succeed in 
later life. We provide funding support 
and host company visit days where 
school children participate in a business 
challenge and get a first-hand view of 
what an investment business looks like. 

View online here

Investment 2020
We are members of Investment 
2020, a scheme established to bring 
more diverse talent into all aspects of 
investment management. In 2017 we 
recruited 4 trainees (2 male, 2 female) 
as school leavers rather than at the more 
traditional graduate level.

View online here

CityParents 
We are corporate members of 
CityParents, an inclusive network for City 
professionals in London who are looking 
to balance career and home caring 
responsibilities, achieving flexibility whilst 
maintaining career development. 

View online here

Women in Banking and Finance
We offer women the opportunity to 
join the Women in Banking and Finance 
(WIBF) initiative which introduces female 
mentors in the same industry but in a 
different business.  

Surrey Cricket Disability 
Programme
We are corporate sponsors of Surrey 
Cricket Board’s Disability Cricket 
Programme. This programme aims 
to increase participation in cricket for 
people with disabilities. Our support 
is aimed at helping to challenge 
preconceptions about disability and 
barriers to entry to not only sport but 
within financial services and other 
business sectors.

View online here

7

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay ReportSummary

At First State Investments we remain committed to increasing diversity of thought across our 
business and, in particular, addressing the balance of men and women in our organisation, 
specifically in senior management and senior investment roles.
Given the current make-up of our industry, and our own organisation, we are very aware that it 
will take some time to fully redress the balance.  However, we believe that the initiatives we have 
in place support our commitment and our focus on tackling the root causes of the imbalance. 
We look forward to sharing our progress as we move forward.

Signatories

Chris Turpin 
Managing Director, First State Investments (UK) Limited 

Lindall West 
Global Head of Human Resources, First State Investments

8

Issued by First State Investments (UK) Limited which 
is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (registration number 143359). Registered 
office Finsbury Circus House, 15 Finsbury Circus, 
London, EC2M 7EB number 2294743. Telephone 
calls may be recorded.

First State Investments I Our Gender Pay Report