             Skip to content  Skip to main menu    We're always looking to improve your experience. Please send us your feedback .        Toggle navigation           What's On    Events    News      Arts & Culture    Children & Young People    Arts in the Community    Nottinghamshire's Cultural Education Partnership    National Portfolio Organisation (NPO)    Events    News      Learning & Skills    NEW Summer 2018 Course Guide    Adult Further and Higher Education Courses and Qualifications    Funding Your Course    Courses for People with Disabilities and Learning Difficulties    Family and Community Learning Courses    Young People (16-18 year-olds)    Getting You Back into Work    Apprenticeships and Employers    Policies and Provider Information    Contact Us    News      Heritage    The Archives    Local Studies & Libraries    Inspire Picture Archive    Our Nottinghamshire    Events    News      Reading & Libraries    Find a Library    E-resources    Renew    Search the Library Catalogue    Mobile Libraries    Information Services    Libraries    Reading    Reading Recommendations    Children and Families    National Portfolio Organisation (NPO)    Events    News      Services for Schools    Inspire Music: Teaching    Nottinghamshire Music Education Hub    Education Library Service    Nottinghamshire's Cultural Education Partnership    News        About Us    Get Involved    Contact Us    Library Login      Search this site   Search             Home    About Us    Gender Pay Gap Reporting                      Inspire is committed to being a
diverse and inclusive employer, and see the publishing of Gender Pay Gap data
as a positive step in talking about gender equality.  We have a largely female workforce, with
females making up 73.2% of our staff. 
The diagram below shows our gender pay gap, as required by legislation,
looking at mean average (adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result
by how many numbers were in the list) and median average (listing all of the
numbers in numerical order and finding the number in the middle). The data is a
snapshot of the difference between the average hourly pay levels of all women
compared to all men who are employees of Inspire, expressed as a percentage of
men’s average pay.  Also displayed are
the pay quartiles, which show the gender distribution across Inspire in four
equally sized hourly pay segments.  The gender pay gap is different
from equal pay, which is concerned with ensuring that men and women are paid
the same for carrying out the same work, or work of equal value.  All of our jobs are evaluated externally by
an independent job evaluation assessor, to ensure that we uphold equal pay.  Our data indicates that the
gender pay gap is due to proportionately more men being in senior and
professional roles, which attract a higher level of pay, whilst proportionately
more females are in our part-time, customer service and support roles.  To address the gender pay gap,
Inspire will:  Ensure that flexible working is considered for
all posts, and promoted for all suitable posts, at all levels of the
organisation Look at our recruitment practices, considering the
design of posts and ensuring that staff are appointed on merit Review our career development pathways, looking
at the support available for women to develop their skills and progress         through
Inspire. Work with other sector providers to look at best
practice     We will work with our staff forum
to look at how we can ensure that all staff, regardless of gender, can fulfil their potential within Inspire.  I certify that the information
contained in this report is accurate.         Peter Gaw  Chief Executive Officer  Culture, Learning and
Libraries (Midlands) – Inspire        Read more about our shared approach to the gender pay gap with other sector providers .     Overall Gender Pay Gap: 5 April 2017    GPG Equivalent Workforce    Directly Employed Headcount in scope: 638 Female: 73.2% Male: 26.8%    Women's Earnings Are:    Mean gender pay gap in hourly rate: 15% lower Median gender pay gap in hourly rate: 20.7% lower    Workforce Profile by Pay Quartile         Reducing the Gap – Priorities for Action    Recruitment Career Development and Progression Flexible Working        About Us    Join Us    Inspire Emails    Room Hire    Partners    Funding    Governance    Members' Offers    Gender Pay Gap Reporting             You might also be interested in:         Learning & Skills  New Preparation for Access to Higher Education Course   #adultlearning  #accesstohe   Published on 9th April 2018           What's On  EMERGE FESTIVAL Mansfield  5 October 2017 - 21 April 2018  The Old Library, Mansfield   #Workshops  #Festival  #Culture  #Mansfield  #Comedy  #shakespeare  #worskshops  #Music  #dance  #Art.  #Drama            Inspire  Summer Reading Challenge Volunteers, 2018   #PressRelease  #MediaRelations   Published on 6th April 2018           Join us  We’d love you to join us! By becoming a member of                  Inspire you will be able to have your say on how the                 society works and develops.  Not a member yet? Sign up          Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest       Work for Us    Donate    Cookies Policy    Contact Us     Copyright 2016 © Inspire. All rights reserved.  Website by Rock Kitchen Harris                    