Gender Pay Report 
2017

Introduction

• The gender pay gap measures the difference between men and 

women’s average earnings and is expressed as a percentage of men’s 
pay. According to the Office of National Statistics, the overall UK gender 
pay gap is currently 18.1%.

• The causes of a gender pay gap can be a complex and shifting mix of 

factors including work, society and family, but by monitoring the pay gap 
between men and women we can better understand the gap and so 
target action to reduce it.

• The UK government has introduced a requirement on all employers to 

publish their gender pay gap by April 2018. 

• The reporting rules require us to identify differences in pay between 
male and female colleagues across the entire workforce regardless of 
job role. 

• The calculations below align to these new requirements and covers the 

period from April 2016 to April 2017. We look forward to sharing our 
formal reports for each entity, based on the position as at April 2018, 
later in the 2018/19 financial year.

Toys “R” Us - Overview

At Toys R Us we are proud of having a diverse workforce and 
attracting applicants of different ages, backgrounds and 
nationalities and believe we must support this equality 
through fair pay. 

As part of this we are confident that women and men are paid 
equally for doing the equivalent jobs across our business.

The UK Pay Gap

• Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to 

be in senior roles (especially very senior roles at the top of 
organisations), while women are more likely than men to be in front-line 
roles at the lower end of the organisation. 

• In addition, men are more likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, 

which attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels of 
seniority. 

• Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from work 
that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up 
children. They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the 
jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively 
low paid.

• This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-

up of Toys R Us Ltd's workforce, where the majority of front-line 
customer assistants within its stores are women, while the majority of 
line manager and senior manager roles are held by men.

Toys “R” Us Pay Gap Stats

This is Toys R Us Ltd’s snapshot at 5 April 
2017.

• The mean gender pay gap for Toys R Us 

Ltd is 20.2%

• The median gender pay gap for Toys R 

Us Ltd is 0%.

• The mean gender bonus gap for Toys R 

Us Ltd is 30.7%

• The median gender bonus gap for Toys R 

Us Ltd is 15.8%

• The proportion of male employees in 

Toys R Us Ltd receiving a bonus is 25.0% 
and the proportion of female employees 
receiving a bonus is 10.8%

The mean is the 

average of all 

numbers in a dataset

The median is the 

numerical value 

which splits the top 

50% of the 

population from the 

bottom 50%

*Data throughout this document covers our UK Stores business including Head Office and the distribution centre at Lodge Farm 

Pay Quartiles

• The number of part time 

working opportunities 
available in our Store Teams 
results in a higher proportion 
of women at the lower end of 
the pay scale

• Historically, the majority of 

higher paid managerial & 
head office roles have been 
filled by men.  

• As many of our managerial 
team members stay with us 
for 10 years or more, it takes 
some time for this to change 
despite our policy of equal 
opportunities

Bonuses

• The proportion of men at 

Toys R Us Ltd who 
received a bonus in the 12 
months up to 5 April 2017 
was 25.0%, while for 
women this was 10.8%. 
• This reflects the higher 

proportion of men in the 
management and 
technical call-out roles 
that, under our current 
policy, attract a 
performance bonus.

Toys “R” Us / UK Comparison

• The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, 

and we are pleased to be able to say that Toys R Us Ltd's gap 
is more or less in line with that of other organisations, 
including those within our industry.

• The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy 

(according to the October 2017 Office for National Statistics 
(ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) 
is 17.4%, while in the retail and wholesale sector it is 18.9%. 
At 20.2%, Toys R Us Ltd's mean gender pay gap is, therefore, 
only slightly higher than both that for the whole economy 
and that for our sector.

• As mentioned previously, our long retention / low churn of 

managerial team members is reflected in these figures.

Toys “R” Us / UK Comparison (cont)

• The median gender pay gap 

for the whole economy 
(according to the October 
2017 ONS ASHE figures) is 
18.4%, while in the retail and 
wholesale sector it is 17.9%. 

• At 0%, Toys R Us Ltd's median 
gender pay gap is, therefore, 
significantly lower than both 
that for the whole economy 
and that for our sector, and 
demonstrating that we truly 
do pay equally for equal 
roles.

How we will close the gap

• While Toys R Us Ltd's gender pay gap is comparable with that 

of organisations both across the whole UK economy and 
within the retail and wholesale sector, this is not a subject 
about which Toys R Us Ltd is complacent, and it is committed 
to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap. 

• TRU Fully intends to implement various policies that will help 

us work towards closing the gap in future years. 

• None of these policies will, of itself, remove the gender pay 

gap - and it may be several years before some have any impact 
at all. 

• In the meantime, Toys R Us Ltd is committed to reporting on 
an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay 
gap and the progress that it is making.

Statement

I, Simon Thomas, Joint Administrator of Toys “R” Us 
Limited , confirm that the information in this 
statement is accurate.

Signed
[                           ]

Date
[                           ]

