 

 

PeoplePlus Group Ltd Gender Pay Gap 2017 

Working at PeoplePlus means being part of a team that’s shaping people’s lives through our services and care, 
supporting people into independence, into work and onwards into career progression.  All our employees  are 
important to us and play a vital role in support of our purpose to help people be the best they can be. We reward 
our people based  on  performance and contribution and we  encourage career progression for all colleagues, 
regardless of gender.  

Having carried out a review of our gender pay gap, we’re incredibly proud of the diverse teams we have at all 
levels in the organisation. 

The current national gender pay gap is 18.1%, which is the lowest figure of its kind since records began. The 
PeoplePlus  gender  pay  gap  is  12.2%.  Whilst  we  a  pleased  with  this  result,  we  are  not  complacent  and  are 
committed to addressing any differentials to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to contribute fully to 
making PeoplePlus a great place to work.   

Gender Pay Statistics 

The gender pay gap shows the differences in the average pay between men and women. 

Gender Pay Statistics

120%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%

Lower

Lower
Middle

Upper
Middle

Upper

Female Male

 

Bonus Payments 

The proportion of employees in each salary quartile 
shows  that  at  PeoplePlus,  there  is  virtually  no 
gender pay gap in the two upper quartiles.  

We have seen a differential in the lower ranges and 
on investigation found that a large proportion of our 
roles  are  customer  facing  advisor  positions  which 
typically  fall  within  the  lower  and  lower-middle 
quartiles. These roles tend to offer greater flexibility 
in  terms  of  hours  and  working  patterns,  which  in 
turn,  tend  to  attract  primary  childcare  providers 
which, in line with current societal norms, tend to be 
women 

There was virtually no difference between the proportion of males and females receiving bonus payments with 
22% of males and 24% of females received a bonus payment in 2017. 

Bridging the Gap 

We are proud of our flexibility and want to ensure that as our business grows and develops,  we continue to 
support our brilliant team. We will ensure that all colleagues are aware that as their needs and responsibilities 
outside work change, we will support them through offering flexibility at all career levels so that as a team, we 
can continue to work together across the business to achieve more for our customers.   

Declaration  

We confirm that the information and data reported are accurate and in line with the UK government’s Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  
 

 

 
Simon Rouse 
Managing Director, PeoplePlus Group Ltd 

