                          Text Size: A  A  A        Home  About  Patient Information  Your visit  Services  News and Media  Join our team  Contact     Home  » About  » Equalities Framework        Quick Links   Home  Introduction  Our values  Our hospitals  Consultants  The Trust Board  Board meetings  Annual General Meeting  Safe Staffing  Emergency preparedness, resilience and Response (EPRR)  Safeguarding  Freedom of information  Public Health  Risk management  R&D  Fundraising  Celebrating Excellence Staff Award  Sign up to Safety  DSSA - Single sex accommodation  Our Commitment to equality  Watford Riverwell (formerly the Watford Health Campus   Key Documents   Operational Plan Summary 2016-17  Annual Report  Quality Account 2016-17 - available via NHS Choices  External Reports to the Trust  Inspection Reports  The nursing, midwifery and allied healthcare professions strategy 2017-2020  Patient Experience and Carer Strategy 2016-2019  Policies and Procedures  NHS Provider licence: Self-certification   See Also   Visiting Times          Distribution of Business  Our Commitment to Equality   West Hertfordshire Hospitals publishes its equality objectives - 5 April 2012  West Hertfordshire Hospitals Trust (WHHT) is required by the Equality Act 2010
(Public Sector Equality Duties (PSED) Regulations 2011 (section 3) to prepare
and publish one or more specific and measurable equality objectives that will
help to achieve the aims of the general equality duty by 6 April 2012, and at
least every four years after that.  » View the Objectives   West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust 
	is committed to ensuring equality, diversity, inclusion and human rights are 
	central to the way we deliver healthcare services to our patients and how we 
	support our staff.  We are proud to be a significant 
	employer in Hertfordshire; our sites across the county bring diversity to 
	our workforce representing a broad spectrum of cultures, nationalities, and 
	backgrounds. Our catchment areas present us with unique challenges and 
	opportunities.  Our aim is to eliminate health 
	inequalities and promote equal access to appropriate and quality services.  Legislation  View the Equality Act  The majority of the Equality Act 
	provisions came into force in October 2010.  The Equality Act is a key part of the 
	legal framework that underpins the way the NHS provides its services to 
	patients and supports its staff. The Equality Act outlaws discrimination 
	against patients or staff with the following protected characteristics:   Age  Disability  Gender re-assignment  Marriage and civil partnerships  Pregnancy and maternity  Race (including nationality and 
		ethnicity)  Religion or belief  Sex  Sexual orientation   Public Sector Equality Duty  Under the Public Sector Equality Duty 
	(PSED), West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust is required to the meet the 
	General Duty to provide people protection from discrimination and to actively promote equality for both patient and staff groups 
	who fall within the nine protected groups.  The Trust complies with the law and 
	aims to continue developing better practice to ensure that:   discrimination, harassment, victimisation and any other conduct 
	prohibited by or under the Equality Act 2010 are eliminated  advance equality of opportunity between people who share different 
	equality groups  we foster good relations between different protected characteristic 
	groups and those who are not within these groups.   West Hertfordshire Hospital Trust is required to publish relevant, proportionate information showing compliance with the General Duty, and to set equality objectives. Publishing information about decision-making and the equality data which underpins those decisions opens the Trust up to informed public scrutiny. It offers the public the information they need to challenge the Trust and hold us to account for our performance on equality and help to focus the minds of decision-makers on giving proper consideration to equality issues. 
West Hertfordshire Hospital Trust published equality information as required under the PSED for the first time in January 2012. We will continue publish information to show our compliance with the General Duty, at least annually.  View the Public Sector Equality Duty Report April 2016  View the Public Sector Equality Duty Report April 2015  View the Public Sector Equality Duty Report April 2014  Gender Pay Gap reporting  West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust is required to carry out Gender Pay reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  The gender pay gap between men and women working at West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust is currently 14.9%, against a current national mean of 17.4%.  The median hourly pay for women is 8% less than men. This compares favourably to the national median hourly pay where women earn 18.4% less than men.  As with many organisations, gender pay and bonus gaps arise because of the disproportionate number of men in senior positions. Within NHS Agenda for Change pay banding distribution, 5.7% of females are employed on bands 8a – 9, while 10.7% of male employees work within these bandings. These are the most senior – and therefore highest-paid – bands. Further work is to understand why are there more men in certain more senior roles than women, not the differences in pay when people are actually in these roles.  The report gives a more detailed breakdown of representation of the Trust’s gender demographics which shows:   A slightly higher proportion of female employees were promoted than male employees.  Recruitment data for 2016/17 show a higher drop off in percentages between short-listing to appointments for men. Of all applications received for roles within the Trust 28.5% were from men with 16.8% of these applications leading to eventual appointments. In contrast 71.3% of applications were from women with 83.0% of these resulting in women being offered roles.  The proportion of women within our consultant workforce has grown from 31.6% in 2008 to 37.2% of female consultants in 2018.   Paul da Gama, Director of Human Resources at West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust said: “Equal treatment of men and women is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for our patients and staff. I am pleased that our gender equality pay statistics compare favourably to many benchmarks, including the Office for National Statistics. We are proud of our progress made over the years, but recognise that more can be done to ensure women and men are more equally represented at all levels, especially in more senior positions. To drive further change we will continue with a holistic approach to create an equal and inclusive workplace, change mind-sets and empower our people to reach their full potential.”  For more information on how the figures break down, see the full report:  View the report  NHS Equality Delivery System2 & Workforce Race Equality Standard  The EDS2 is an assessment tool designed to measure NHS equality performance with an aim to produce better outcomes for people using and working in the NHS and to gather equality evidence that demonstrates compliance with the Public Sector Equality Duty (PSED) of the Equality Act 2010.  The implementation of EDS2 supports our strategic objective to promote equality throughout the planning, development and delivery of our services whilst appreciating and respecting the diversity of our local community and staff.  The EDS2 sets out four goals around equality, diversity and human rights. Within the four goals, there are 18 outcomes, against which we are required to assess and grade our equality performance. 9 of the 18 outcomes examine equality in service delivery and nine examine equality in workforce development.  Through the EDS2 we have thoroughly examined our equality information ( 2014 PSED report and 2015 Workforce Race Equality Standard ) and our achievements during April 2014 to March 2015.  We have undertaken a process of engagement and review to complete the EDS2 grading process. 17 of the 18 EDS2 outcomes have been graded across two grading sessions, first for services on 6 May and Workforce on 20 August 2015.   Goal 1 – assessed and graded on 6 May  Goal 2 – assessed and graded on 6 May  Goal 3 – assessed and graded 20 August  Goal 4 – assessed and graded on 6 May and 20 August   » View the full grading outcomes  » View the 2015 Workforce Race Equality Standard  » View NHS EDS2  For our latest 2016 workforce race equality standard report and action 
	plan for 2016/17 see links below.  » View the 2016 Workforce Race Equality Standard  » View the Action Plan for 2016/17  For our latest 2016/17 Workforce Race Equality Standard report and plan see link below  » View the 
	2016/17 Workforce Race Equality Standard report      © 2000 - West Herts Hospitals NHS Trust  Contact the Trust              