[ GENDER PAY GAP REPORT UK ]

Report for Waters Wilmslow 

We strive to create a workplace culture that encourages and facilitates inclusion, participation, 
respect, and rewards high performers. We welcome the UK government’s introduction 
of the gender pay gap reporting legislation. Operating in an industry where women are 
underrepresented in STEM, (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Maths), we have made 
gender the focus of our diversity program. Through our diversity and inclusion initiatives,  
we aim to be a diverse and inclusive organization where everybody feels valued and 
empowered to succeed.

Proportion of employees 

receiving a bonus

Female

55%

45%

No Bonus Received

Received a Bonus

Male

46%

54%

No Bonus Received

Received a Bonus

As required by UK legislation, we share this gender pay report for 
Micromass UK Ltd (Waters), our subsidiary at Wilmslow, Cheshire, UK. 
It includes the percentage difference amongst its employees, between 
men’s average hourly pay, and women’s average hourly pay. 

WHAT DOES OUR DATA TELL US? 
In the UK, Waters® has a gender composition of 79% male, 21% female. 
As our organization comprises roles mainly in STEM, our gender pay 
gap is caused by under-representation of females in STEM and senior 
leadership roles. We have a larger proportion of men in senior roles, 
with 2.8 times more men than women in senior roles. 

PAY AND BONUS GAP 
We have a mean gender pay gap of 24.1% and a median gender  
pay gap of 15.2% which is lower than the median gender pay gap  
of 18.4% (UK office for National Statistics). The table also captures  
the mean and median difference between bonuses paid to men  
and women in the year up to 5th April, 2017. Our report shows  
54% of our male population received a bonus compared to 45%  
of the female population. In that year, the mean bonus pay for  
men was 56.7% higher than that of females and the median  
bonus pay was 45.8% higher. 

Having investigated the reasons for our bonus gap, we do not believe 
it is due to any systemic gender discrimination. It exists because of the 
particular nature of the bonus schemes that operate within Waters. 
Employees across the organization are eligible for a performance 
bonus. Those in senior roles are eligible for a management incentive 
bonus plan and long-term incentives. The bonus awards for those 

senior staff therefore typically represent a much higher 
figure than those in more junior roles. Because we have 
limited female representation among that senior group  
(a matter which is a real area of focus for us), the  
bonus gap is larger than it would be if we were only 
comparing bonuses for staff at more junior levels.

Difference 
between men 
and women
Gender  
Pay Gap
Gender  
Bonus Gap

Mean

24.1%

56.7%

Female

Median

55%

45%

15.2%

No Bonus Received
45.8%

Received a Bonus

Female

Male

PAY QUARTILES
This illustrates our gender distribution across four equally sized quartiles.

55%

46%

45%

54%

Lower Quartile

2nd Quartile

3rd Quartile

32%

25%

16%

 

68%

75%

84%

No Bonus Received

Received a Bonus

Received a Bonus

Upper Quartile
No Bonus Received
11%

Male

89%

46%

54%

OUR GENDER DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PLANS
We believe in creating a diverse and gender balanced 
workforce and have recently launched a global corporate 
gender diversity initiative sponsored by our Executive 
Committee. We are committed to this and have initiated  
a number of actions which include:
■■ Reviewing our recruitment and promotion practices, 
focusing on how to attract a wider female candidate 
pool to ensure we have female candidates to consider 
for all roles

■■ Supporting our STEM Ambassadors and WISE  

People Like Me Facilitators to work with schools to 
encourage the participation of females in Science, 
Engineering, Maths, and Technology education 
thereby increasing our recruitment pool

■■ Equipping and empowering our leaders to own and 

drive diversity and inclusion by educating them in 
Gender Intelligence to ensure they make inclusion  
a normal part of who we are and what we do

■■ Bringing women leaders together through the  
Gender Diversity Network, creating a forum to  
focus on career development for females

No Bonus Received

Received a Bonus

■■ Encouraging continued participation of females  

in our work place by providing flexible work patterns  
and an enhanced maternity leave policy.

DECLARATION
I confirm that the information set out in this report as 
required under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017 is accurate.

Brian W. Smith 
Director, Micromass UK Ltd.

Eilís Rattigan 
Director, Human Resources,  
Micromass UK Ltd.

Waters and The Science of What’s Possible are trademarks of Waters Corporation. 

©2018 Waters Corporation. Produced in the U.S.A.  March 2018  TC-PDF

Waters Corporation 
34 Maple Street 
Milford, MA 01757 U.S.A. 
T: 1 508 478 2000 
F: 1 508 872 1990 
www.waters.com

