 
 
 
 

 
 

 

Pay Policy Statement 2018/19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2018 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and other Senior Managers  

   
 
Contents 
 
1. Introduction and Purpose 
 
2. Pay Structure 
 
3. Senior Management Remuneration 
 
4. Recruitment and Severance Packages of Chief Officers  
 
 
5. Additions to Salary of Chief Officers/Senior Management 
 
6. Pension Contributions 
 
7. Payments on Termination 
 
8. Lowest Paid Employees   
 
9. Accountability and Decision Making 
 
10. Pay Gap 
 
11. Publication 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

page 3 

page 3 

page 4 

page 5 

page 6 

page 6 

page 6 

page 7 

page 7 

page 7 

page 8 

 

2

 

 

 

1.  

1.1 

1.2  

1.3 

1.4 

 
2.  
 
2.1  

 
2.2 

2.3 

2.4 

2.5 

 

Introduction and Purpose 

Under section 112 of the Local Government Act 1972, the Council has 
the “power to appoint officers on such reasonable terms and 
conditions as the Council thinks fit”. Section 38 of the Localism Act 
2011, requires Councils to set out their approach to their pay policies.  
This Pay Policy Statement (the ‘statement’) sets out the Council’s 
approach.  

The purpose of the statement is to provide transparency with regard to 
the Council’s approach to setting the pay of its employees (excluding 
teaching staff working in Council schools) by identifying; 

the methods by which pay of all employees is determined; 
the detail and level of remuneration of its most senior staff i.e. 
“Chief Officers and other highly paid staff ’, as defined by the 
relevant legislation; 

• 
• 

 

Once approved by full Council, this policy statement will come into 
immediate effect and will be subject to review annually.   

In determining the remuneration of all of its employees, the Council 
will comply with all relevant employment legislation.  The Council 
seeks to ensure there is no pay discrimination within its pay structures 
and that all pay differentials can be objectively justified.  One method 
is through the use of job evaluation mechanisms, which directly 
establish the relative levels of posts in grades according to the 
requirements, demands and responsibilities of the role.   

Pay Structure 

The Council uses the nationally negotiated pay spine(s) (i.e. a defined 
list of salary points) as the basis for its local pay structure, which 
determines the salaries of the vast majority of its (non-teaching) 
workforce.   

For employees who are engaged under the National Joint Council for 
Local Government Employees and who comprise the vast majority of 
the Council’s workforce, two nationally recognised job evaluation 
schemes are used as a basis for determining pay and grade levels.  
The schemes in use are those of the National Joint Council and 
Greater London Provincial Council.  
 
In addition there are a number of specialist education advisors and 
psychologists who are engaged under Soulbury Committee 
Inspectors, Organisers and Advisory Officers of Local Authorities. 
 
The current rates for Local Government Employees and Chief Officers 
were effective from 1 April 2017. Those for Soulbury employees from 
1 September 2017.  
 
In limited circumstances, where a nationally negotiated pay spine 
does not apply, the Council will determine the salary rate through local 
negotiation and objective justification. 
 

3

The Council adopts the national pay bargaining arrangements in 
respect of the establishment and revision of the national pay spine, for 
example through any nationally agreed annual pay increases 
negotiated with joint trade unions, where it is party to those 
negotiations. 
 
All other pay related allowances are the subject of either nationally or 
locally negotiated rates, having been determined from time to time in 
accordance with collective bargaining machinery.   
 
New appointments of employees will normally be made at the 
minimum of the relevant pay scale for the grade, although this can be 
varied where necessary to secure an appointment. Where the 
appointment salary is above the minimum point of the pay scale, it 
must have due regard to Equality Legislation, must be objectively 
justified and agreed by the Head of Human Resources. 
 
From time to time it may be necessary to take account of the external 
pay levels in the labour market in order to attract and retain 
employees with particular experience, skills and capacity.  Where this 
is necessary, the Council will ensure the requirement for such is 
objectively justified, lawful and approved by a Delegated Decision.  
 

2.10  Honoraria payments will only be considered following an evaluation 

under the appropriate J.E scheme of the additional duties, and 
approved via an admin decision. 

2.6 

2.7 

2.8 

2.9 

 
3. 

3.1 

 
3.2 

 
3.3 
 

 

Senior Management Remuneration 
 
For the purposes of this statement, senior management means those senior 
officers who are in receipt of a salary in excess of £50,000, as defined in the 
Department for Communities and Local Government – Code of 
Recommended Practice for Local Authorities on Data Transparency. These 
are those employed under: 
 
a) the Joint Negotiating Committee for Chief Executives of Local Authorities. 
 
b) the Joint Negotiating Committee for Chief Officers of Local Authorities. 
 
c) the upper levels of the pay spines contained within the Soulbury Committee 
Inspectors, Organiser and Advisory Officers of Local Authorities, which 
includes Advisors, Inspectors and Senior and Principal Education 
Psychologists. 
 
d) the upper levels of the pay spines contained within the NJC for Local 
Government Services Conditions of Service.   

Individual senior management pay is set out in data published on the 
Council’s Website in accordance with the Code of Recommended Practice for 
Local Authorities on Data Transparency 

Chief Executive – The salary is £142,812. 

4

3.4 

3.5 

3.6 

3.7 

 
3.8 

3.9 

Deputy Chief Executive - The salary of this post comprises  2 incremental 
points within a salary band of 19 incremental points within the range £116,952 
to £119,391. 
 
Strategic Director of People’s Services - The salary is £135,000. 
 
Strategic Director of Place Services - The salary of this comprises 4 
incremental points within a salary band of 19 incremental points within the 
range £107,205 to £114,513. 
 
Senior Assistant Directors – The salary of posts of Senior Assistant 
Directors and equivalent are engaged under the Chief Officer terms and 
conditions and paid on the Senior Officer scale on a grade which comprises 
of a 2 incremental point band with a salary range of £74,463 to £76,311).  

 

Assistant Directors – The salary of posts of Assistant Directors and 
equivalent who are also engaged under the Chief Officer terms and 
conditions are paid on the Senior Officer scale on a grade which 
comprises of 5 incremental point band, with a salary range £65,241 to 
£72,624 from 1 April 2017. 
 
Soulbury – The salary of the posts engaged under the Soulbury 
terms and conditions on the pay spine relating to Advisors and 
Inspectors are paid on a scale comprising of 7 incremental points 
within the range £51,073 to £65,102. The salary of the posts engaged 
on the pay spine relating to Senior and Principle Education 
Psychologists are paid on scales comprising of 6/7 incremental points 
within the range £48,211 to £58,081. 

 
3.10  Local Government Services – The salary of Senior Officer posts 
who are engaged under the Local Government Services terms and 
conditions are paid on the associated pay spine on a scale comprising 
of the top 4 increments, £51,180 to £54,114.  

 
4.        Recruitment and Severance Packages of Chief Officers and other 

 

Senior Managers 

 
4.1 

The constitution of the Council which is published on the Council’s 
website has specific requirements for the recruitment of the Chief 
Executive, Chief Officers and the Senior Officers engaged under the 
Chief Officer terms and conditions. 
 

4.2  Under the constitution full Council appoints the Council’s Head of Paid 
Service, and has delegated powers to the Appointments Committee to 
appoint the following posts: 
 
Deputy Chief Executive & Director of Finance 
Strategic Director of Peoples’ Service 
Strategic Director of Place Services 
 
In addition, full Council has delegated to the Appointments Committee 
the power to agree certain salary and severance packages that are 
offered in respect of new appointments to, and terminations from, 
certain posts that fall within the Secretary of State’s guidance. This 
guidance considers that £100,000 is the right level for that threshold to 

4.3 

 

5

be set.  For this purpose, salary packages should include salary, any 
bonuses, fees or allowances routinely payable to the appointee and 
any benefits in kind to which the officer is entitled as a result of their 
employment.  
 

4.4  Severance packages may include salary paid in lieu, redundancy 

compensation, pension enhancements, holiday pay and any bonuses, 
fees or allowances paid. At St Helens in the case of redundancy a 
severance package will only include statutory redundancy and those 
pension costs that the Council is obliged to pay (see Section 7). 

Additions to Salary of Chief Officers 

5.1  With the exception of progression through the incremental scale of the 

relevant grade being subject to satisfactory appraisal, which is 
assessed on an annual basis, the level of remuneration is not variable 
dependent upon the achievement of defined targets.  
 
The Chief Executive is the Council’s Returning Officer. Fees for local 
election duties are included in the salary for the post. Fees for duties 
in relation to Parliamentary and European elections and for any 
referendums held, are set and paid for by the Government on each 
occasion. 

Pension Contributions  

 
5.  

 

5.2 

 

 

6. 

6.1 

6.3 

 
 
 
 
 
7. 
 
7.1 

 

The employer’s pension contribution is required to be published under 
the Code of Practice on Local Authority Accounting in the United 
Kingdom. 
 

6.2  Where employees have exercised their statutory right to become members of 

the Local Government Pension Scheme, the Council is required to make a 
contribution to the scheme representing a percentage of the pensionable 
remuneration due under the contract of employment of that employee.   
 
The rate of contribution is set by Actuaries advising Merseyside Pension Fund 
(MPF) and reviewed every 3 years in order to ensure the scheme is 
appropriately funded.  Current and future rates were determined arising from 
the Triennial Valuation 2016 and rates for the current and next two financial 
years are as follows: 
 
 
 
 

 
 
2017/18 
2018/19 
2019/20 

13.8% 
14.4% 
14.9% 

Payments on Termination 

The Council’s approach to statutory and discretionary payments on 
termination of employment for all employees including Chief Officers, prior to 
reaching normal retirement age, is set out within the Council’s policy 
statement ‘Exercise of Discretionary Functions’ in accordance with Local 
Government Pension Scheme Regulations 2014 – Discretionary Payments 
(Amendment) Regulations 1999 and Early Termination of Employment 

6

(discretionary compensation) England and Wales regulations 2000. 
Regulation numbers 31 & 26. 

Current policy at St Helens dictates that the statutory redundancy 
calculation alone is used without any multiplying factor.  In terms of 
redundancy payment calculations the actual weekly wage is used 
rather than the statutorily defined amount. No enhancements to 
pensions are offered. 

Lowest Paid Employees 

The lowest paid persons employed under a contract of employment  
with the Council are employed on Full Time Equivalent (FTE 37 hours) 
salaries in accordance with spinal column point 9 (Grade A of the 
Council’s grading structure £15,375, as at 1 April 2017). 
 
The Council employs Apprentices who are not considered within the 
definition of “lowest paid employees” as they are employed under a 
“training contract” on the nationally set apprenticeship allowance. 

The relationship between the rate of pay for the lowest paid and Chief 
Officers is determined by the processes used for determining pay and 
grading structures as set out earlier in this policy statement.   

The current pay levels within the Council define the multiple between 
the median full time equivalent (FTE) earnings (scp 34) and the Chief 
Executive as 1:4.74. 

The current pay levels within the Council define the multiple between 
the lowest paid employee full time equivalent (FTE) earnings and the 
average Chief Officer earnings as 1:5.08.  

The current pay levels within the Council define the multiple between 
the median full time equivalent (FTE) earnings and the average of 
Chief Officer earnings as 1:2.59. 

As part of its overall and ongoing monitoring of alignment with external 
pay markets, both within and outside the sector, the Council will use 
available benchmark information as appropriate.  In addition, upon the 
annual review of this statement, the Council will also monitor any 
changes in the relevant ‘pay multiples’ and benchmark against other 
comparable Councils. 

Accountability and Decision Making 

 

 

 
7.2 

 
8. 

8.1 

8.2 

8.2 

 
8.3 

 
8.4 

 
8.5 

 

8.6 

 
9. 
 
9.1 

In accordance with the Pay Policy Statement of the Council, the Head 
of Paid Services and Chief Officers are responsible for decision 
making in relation to the recruitment, pay, terms and conditions and 
severance arrangements in relation to employees of the Council.   
 
Pay Gap 

10. 
 
10.1  From 2017, any organisation that has 250 or more employees must publish 

and report specific figures about their gender pay gap. 
 

 

7

10.2  Employers must report their data to government on-line and publish their 

gender pay gap data and a written statement on their public-facing website. 

 
10.3  The first report must be calculated using a specific reference date of 31 

March 2017, and must be published by 30 March 2018. 

 
10.4  At 31 March 2017 the mean hourly rate across the Council was £11.70: for 
women the rate was £11.36 and for men it was £12.44, meaning there is a 
mean gender pay gap of 8.7%. 
 

10.5  The median hourly rate across the Council is £9.62: the rate for women is 

£9.62 and the rate for men is £10.33, meaning there is a median gender pay 
gap of 6.9% 

 
10.5  The Council does not pay bonuses so is unable to report this. 
 
10.6  The gender pay quartiles for the whole workforce are as follows: 
 

Quartile 
Upper 

Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 

Lower 

Male 
9% 
7.6% 
11.1% 
4.1% 

Female 

16% 
17.3% 
18.5% 
16.4% 

 
10.7  Males represent 31.8% and females represent 68.2% of the total workforce. 
 
10.8  The gender split in the upper two quartiles is roughly comparable with this 

proportionate make up. 
 

10.9  The number of females in the lower two quartiles’ however, is higher. This is 
largely due to the historical occupational segregation that means that female 
employees take on the part-time lower paid work that is widely available in the 
Council Services. 

 
10.10  The gender pay profiles for each quartile are as follows: 

 

Quartile 
Upper 

Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 

Lower 

Male 
20% 
37.5% 
30.5% 
35.8% 

Female 

80% 
62.5% 
69.5% 
64.2% 

 
10.11  The actual gender split in each of the 3 lower quartiles is roughly comparable 

with the proportionate make-up of the workforce, with the females in the 
upper quartile exceeding this. 

Publication 

 
11. 
 
11.1  Upon approval by full Council, this statement will be published on the 

Council’s Website.   

 

11.2 

 

In accordance with the requirements of the Accounts and Audit 
Regulations 2015 the Council includes, in its Statement of Accounts, 
details of remuneration and the authority's contribution to the 

8

individual's pension for the posts of Chief Executive, Strategic 
Directors and any other officer(s) qualifying to be a statutory chief 
officer under those Regulations.  

 

9

