Our People

All MAXIMUS businesses in the UK have a strong culture of supporting colleagues, 
working together to provide high quality services and building strong teams.

We undertake regular assessment exercises to ensure that we are meeting the needs of 
our people. In the most recent colleague survey at Centre for Health and Disability 
Assessments, 83% of colleagues said they felt supported. At Health Management, 89% 
of colleagues felt that they were strongly supported at work.

We hold regular training events for our colleagues and offer opportunities to gain or 
extend professional and vocational qualiﬁcations. We also support internships and 
apprenticeships, with many of these leading to permanent positions within MAXIMUS 
businesses.

We recognise achievement through our staff awards programmes and encourage 
initiatives that recognise colleagues on a local level. Our commitment to colleagues
extends beyond the working environment. We support colleagues who volunteer and
those who give their time to local community outreach projects.

We have a tailored 24/7 occupational health advice and support service for all colleagues. 
Recently, we have begun rolling out new health and wellbeing programmes. We also 
provide specialist support for colleagues working in challenging environments. 

Marco Pierleoni
UK Division President

MAXIMUS regularly

recognise high performing

colleagues through our

awards programmes

Remploy are one of
a very small number
of UK companies with

Level 3 Disability
Conﬁdent Leader 

status

MAXIMUS employ over
3,800 people in 270
locations across the UK

Remploy is committed to equal pay for all employees. Through our policies and workplace 
culture we strive to be fair and consistent in our approach to pay. We are a mission-led 
business committed to equality of opportunity in the workplace, and we aspire to be an 
exemplar employer. In 2016 we were one of the ﬁrst organisations to be recognised as a 
Disability Conﬁdent Leader, and as co-owners of Remploy all employees have a say on how 
our business is run.

We have attained Investors in People Gold, which recognises the quality and continuous 
improvement of our people management and places us in the top 10% of UK businesses. 
Remploy has also taken part in the annual Best Companies workforce survey since 2015, which 
measures workplace engagement and allows us to benchmark ourselves against competitors.

Our pay data shows a mean hourly pay difference of 3% in favour of males, and a median 
gender pay gap of 4.2%. These are both signiﬁcantly below the current UK mean of 17.5% and 
median of 18.2%. Across all quartiles of our business, including at the highest levels, Remploy 
employs a higher proportion of females than males. We have in place policies covering 
maternity pay, bonuses, and ﬂexible working that support individuals to balance their family 
life and career. 

The proportion of female staff is particularly pronounced in the lower-middle quartile of 
employees, which has a disproportionate effect on our median gender pay gap ﬁgure.

While Remploy’s gender pay gap is low relative to most businesses, we continue to seek ways 
to eliminate the gap through our pay strategy, recruitment processes and external benchmark-
ing and validation. This will ensure that we employ the best people at every level of the 
business, and that everyone in the business has an opportunity to maximise their talents.

I conﬁrm that the information in this report is accurate.

Gareth Parry
CEO, Remploy

Gender Pay Gap

Pay gap

Bonus gap

Mean

3.0%

0.0%

Median

4.2%

0.0%

Proportion of females and males

in each pay quartile

Lowest pay

quartile

Lower middle
pay quartile

Upper middle
pay quartile

Highest

pay quartile

41%

59%

32%

68%

41%

59%

39%

61%

remploy.co.uk

info@remploy.co.uk

