Gender 
Pay Gap 
Report
2017

Introductory message

01    About LeasePlan
02  
03    What is the gender pay gap?
04   How is it calculated?
05   Our gender pay gap results

About us

LeasePlan is one of the world’s leading Car-as-a-Service 
companies, with 1.7 million vehicles under management in over 30 
countries. LeasePlan manages the entire vehicle life-cycle for its 
corporate, SME and private customers, taking care of everything 
from purchasing, insurance and maintenance to car resale. 
LeasePlan’s core businesses are Car-as-a-Service, a EUR 68billion 
market, and CarNext.com, an independent marketplace for 
flexible used-car mobility solutions, serving a EUR 65billion market. 
With over 50 years’ experience, LeasePlan’s mission is to provide 
what’s next in mobility via an ‘any car, anytime, anywhere’ service 
- so you can focus on what’s next for you. Find out more at   
www.leaseplan.co.uk.  LeasePlan UK was established in 1979 and 
is the second largest leasing company in the UK. 

01 | About LeasePlan

Message from Steve Moss, 
HR & Customer Insight 
Director, LeasePlan UK

At LeasePlan, we want talent to be the only criteria for success 
and are committed to building an inclusive culture where 
everyone can be themselves and do their best work.  This 
commitment is not only central to our values, it is also critical to 
our business.  

Our analysis tells us that the under-representation of women 
in higher paid roles is the main driver for our gender pay gap. If 
we make a gender comparison across our own internal grading 
system the gap for each grade is virtually non-existent. 

While there’s no room for complacency, we’re happy that 
we’re not systematically paying people unfairly based on their 
gender.  The important thing for us is that our employees get 
equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity or 
any diversity element. 

02 | Introductory message

What is the gender 
pay gap? 

The gender pay gap is a measure of the 
difference in the average pay of men 
and women across an organisation.  It 
differs from an equal pay comparison, 
which would involve the pay differences 
between men and women who carry 
out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of 
equal value.  

All companies in the UK with over 250 
employees are required to report their 
gender pay gap to the Government and 
include it on their company website by 
4th April, or 30th March 2018 for the public 
sector.

03 | What is the gender pay gap?

“The gender pay gap is a 
measure of the difference 
in the average pay of men 
and women across an 
organisation.”

How is it calculated?

Using the calculations set out in the gender pay gap reporting 
regulations, we have taken pay data from LeasePlan UK’s entire 
business. This data includes many different roles and rates of pay.  
 
Imagine lining up all our female employees in order of lowest 
hourly rate of pay to the highest and then repeating the 
exercise for male employees.  The median gender pay gap is the 
difference in pay between the female in the middle of their line 
and the male in the middle of their line.

Highest paid

The median

Lowest paid

04 | How is it calculated?

Highest paid

Lowest paid

Top quartile

Upper middle 

quartile

Lower middle 

quartile

Lower quartile

The other measure is the mean gender pay gap, which shows 
the difference in average hourly rate of pay between men 
and women. This is also affected by the different numbers of 
men and women in different roles. These median and mean 
calculations are also carried out when comparing bonus pay 
over a twelve-month period. The proportion of men and women 
awarded any bonus pay over that period is also reported.
 
Quartiles are calculated by listing the rates of pay for each 
employee across the business from lowest to highest, before 
splitting that list into four equal-sized groups and calculating the 
percentage of males and females in each.  Calculations of mean 
and median pay and quartile pay bands are based on data 
from April 2017 only, including ordinary pay and bonus pay.

Our gender pay gap results 

Women’s hourly rate

Pay quartiles 
Proportion of men and women employees according to quartile pay bands

Top Quartile

Upper Middle 
Quartile

Lower Middle 
Quartile

Lower Quartile

Mean

Median

Lower

18.56%
27.46%

Lower

Men: 59%
Women: 41%

Men: 54%
Women: 46%

Men: 42%
Women: 58%

Men: 42%
Women: 58%

Bonus pay

Women’s bonus pay is:

Mean

Median

Lower

23.19% 100%
46.87%

of men and women 
received bonus pay

Lower

05 | Our gender pay gap results

The main reason for our gender pay gap is an imbalance of male and 
female colleagues across the organisation. At present, there are fewer 
women in senior roles than men, as well as a higher proportion of women 
relative to men in lower level roles.

We recognise that, at more junior levels, our gender balance is much better.  
These people are our senior managers of the future and therefore we 
are investing in training and development activities – such as our SHINE 
programme for aspiring managers - to ensure they fulfil their potential.  We 
are confident that this will lead to a better gender balance at senior levels 
and hence a reduction in the gender pay gap.
 
The automotive industry is traditionally male dominated. Addressing the 
disparity in gender representation at senior levels will take time, but we 
have an unwavering commitment to gender equality and working to close 
the pay gap. 

We’re confident that male and females across our organisation are paid 
equally for doing the same job. However, as our UK gender pay gap data 
shows, we still have more work to do to create further career opportunities 
so that women can continue to progress.

I confirm the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate.

Steve Moss, HR & Customer Insight Director, LeasePlan UK

06 | Our gender pay gap results

