Royal Society of Chemistry’s 
Gender Pay Gap 2017

Foreword from 
our CEO

The Royal Society of Chemistry is driven by its values. We are 
professional, dedicated, enabling and respectful – and to hold  
true to these we must treat all people fairly.

We are committed to gender equality and inclusion and have  
been removing barriers to progression for underrepresented 
groups for every role throughout our organisation for a number  
of years – and we will continue to do so. We have made progress. 
For example, we have adapted several roles to suit flexible working 
requests and the number of such arrangements has grown in the 
last few years. We will continue to enable this and facilitate other 
opportunities that might be appropriate.

We strongly believe the same work should receive the same  
pay, taking into account performance and level of experience, 
regardless of gender. I am proud that at a role-by-role level,  
we have almost no gap between women’s and men’s pay, and  
this is true for every position in the organisation. 

We do, however, have a gender pay gap when all pay is used to 
determine a single mean or median result. This is largely due to  
the high proportion of women in administrative and early career 
publishing roles, which are in the lower quartiles of pay, and the 
relatively high proportion of men in senior technical roles, which 
are in the upper quartiles of pay. This reflects a number of broader 
social issues and we will take action that is appropriate to reduce 
the impact of this within our organisation while remaining inclusive 
and fair in everything we do.

As chief executive officer, I confirm that this is an accurate  
report of our gender pay gap – and wholeheartedly reaffirm our 
commitment to equality of opportunity at the Royal Society of 
Chemistry.

Our gender pay gap
Salary pay gap

Hourly rate gender pay gap

15.7%

Median

17.0%

Mean

When analysed per pay quartile the gender pay gap is significantly 
smaller, and almost disappears when analysed within our pay bands, 
as men and women doing similar work receive similar pay.

Hourly rate gender gap by quartile

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

8.3%

Median

2.9%

Mean

6.8%

0.5%

0.5%

4.1%

1.0%

1.0%

Gender Pay Gap and Closing it Altogether, 
Government Equalities office with the CIPD, 2017

Equal pay and  the gender pay gapUnequal pay is the  unlawful practice of  paying men and women differently for performing the same or similar work or work  of equal value; whereas the gender pay gap is a measure  of the difference between the  average hourly earnings  of men and women.Our gender pay gap
Salary pay gap

65%

Employees

35%

The effect of proportions of  
men and women in our workforce

 Female
 Male 

65% of our employees are women and 35% are men.

A large contribution to our gender pay gap is the fact that we  
have differing proportions of each gender in each pay quartile, 
particularly in two areas:

•  Women are overrepresented in the lower quartiles of pay.  
This is mainly due to women filling a higher proportion of  
our administrative and early career publishing roles.

•  Men are overrepresented in the upper quartile of pay, although  
at leadership team level there is a higher proportion of women. 
This is mainly due to the number of senior technical roles,  
for example, in technology and finance, in the top quartile,  
which are filled by men. Our inclusive approach to recruitment 
has improved this situation recently. One outcome is that women 
now make up 28% of our technology team, compared with  
a national average across the technology sector of 17%.

Gender split by quartile – % gender in quartile

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

47.8%

34.0%

29.0%

23.0%

52.2%

66.0%

71.0%

77.0%

Our gender pay gap
Gender bonus gap

Proportions of employees receiving bonuses 

83.1%  

Female

81.5% 

Male

Median and mean gender bonus pay gaps

25.7%  

Median

39.5% 

Mean

The proportion of women and men receiving bonuses is roughly 
equal but we have a median bonus pay gap of 25.7%. This is due  
to uneven representation of women and men in the various pay 
quartiles and among those who work part-time.

The majority of employee bonuses are calculated as a percentage 
of actual annual pay. Some employees earn target-driven bonuses, 
eg in sales, and some recieve bonuses such as recognition awards 
and referral payments which are lump sum payments.

Two specific factors play a significant role in our bonus pay gap:

•  The higher proportion of men in the upper pay 

quartile, compared with the proportion of men in  
our organisation

•  The higher proportion of women in part-time roles, 
compared with the proportion of women generally 
– of our female employees, 20.3% work part-time 
while only 3.9% our male employees do

What counts as a bonusAll bonuses awarded at the Royal Society of Chemistry are factored into the bonus pay gap calculation as required.  This includes:• Performance related bonuses• Recruitment referral bonuses• Recognition awardsOur gender pay gap
Action we’re taking now

We will continue to embed inclusivity in everything we 
do as an organisation. We already have several initiatives 
in place to make all roles accessible:

•  Our standard working week is 35 hours,  

lower than the national average

•  Those involved in recruitment receive  

unconscious bias training

•  We offer a wide range of flexible  

working options

We have begun to see results. For  
example, we have more women than  
men in our leadership team, currently  
made up of six women and five men.

We will continue to explore  
what else we can do.

Leadership

team

 Women
 Men 

Our gender pay gap
Plans for the future

We remain committed to being a fair  
and inclusive employer. This means  
we will continue to invest in policies 
like flexible working, even if they 
contribute to our pay gap.

We will:

•  consider roles where gender balance is particularly distinct  

and proactively widen the language and channels we use for  
our recruitment campaigns, in order to attract a wider range  
of applicants;

•  widen our existing unconscious bias training programme to all 
managers, focusing on the impact of bias on decision-making  
in recruitment and performance management as well as other 
organisational behaviours; 

•  review our current performance management and promotion 

processes to ensure that we provide effective support and 
encouragement to all employees so that they are able to  
progress within the organisation according to their potential  
and the opportunities that arise. This includes:

•  ensuring our performance management process  

is unbiased

•  identifying and addressing any different treatment  

in external appointment and internal promotion

We are investing time and resources into understanding the wider 
societal issues that mean that we still have a gender pay gap, 
including:

•  gender-based assumptions about work roles

•  maternity, paternity and traditional family roles

•  part-time working after returning from parental leave 
(currently much more likely to be taken up by women)

Case study:  
Diversity and Inclusion 
Framework

We recently took part in a benchmarking exercise led  
by the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Science Council, 
completing a self-assessment against their Diversity and  
Inclusion Progression Framework for professional bodies.

Our results showed that we are comparable with other learned 
societies and professional bodies, with some particular strengths 
and some areas for development.

Two notable strengths highlighted were the Leadership and 
Employment categories. For Leadership our results highlighted  
“a clear governance structure in place for inclusion and diversity 
and a high level of leadership involvement and accountability.”

For Employment the findings identified the high proportion of 
women employed in the organisation generally and our leadership 
team specifically, as well as “a wide range of actions… to support 
inclusion and diversity in employment.”

https://sciencecouncil.org/professional-bodies/
diversity-equality-and-inclusion/diversity-framework/

Thomas Graham House
Science Park, Milton Road
Cambridge, CB4 0WF, UK
Tel: +44 (0)1223 420066

Burlington House
Piccadilly, London
W1J 0BA, UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7437 8656

International offices 
Beijing, China
Shanghai, China
Berlin, Germany
Bangalore, India 
Tokyo, Japan
Philadelphia, USA
Washington, USA

www.rsc.org

Registered charity number: 207890
© Royal Society of Chemistry 2018

