Gender Pay 
Gap Report 
2017

Cubic Transportation Systems   |   Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Cubic Corporation is the parent company of three major businesses, Cubic Transportation System (CTS), Cubic Global 
Defence (CGD) and Cubic Mission Solutions (CMS).  In the UK, CTS is the largest employer and the only division required to 
report on the gender pay gap.

On the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 CTS employed 976 people, 86% were male and 14% were female.  There were 965 
permanent relevant employees for the purpose of the gender pay calculations.

The Bonus Pay Gap

MEAN

MEDIAN

35.81%
9.33%

The Gender Pay Gap

MEAN

MEDIAN

13.01%
8.62%

The proportion of males and females 
receiving a bonus payment

MALE

FEMALE

40.79%
47.86%

The proportion of males and females 
in each pay band

Upper quartile

Upper Middle quartile 

Lower middle quartile

Lower quartile

MALE

FEMALE

88.38% 11.62%
88.80% 11.20%
82.57% 17.43%
82.64% 17.36%

The Analysis
Our demographics reflect the fact that engineering is heavily male dominated 
in this country.  The Office for National Statistics report for April to June 2017 
showed that only 11% of engineers in the UK are women.  At Cubic, just 14% 
of our population are women and only 6% of roles within engineering are held 
by females.
We are encouraged to see that our median gender pay gap at 8.62% is 
lower than the national average of 18.4% (ONS Annual Survey of Hours and 
Earnings: 2017 provisional and 2016 revised results).  However it’s important 
to remember that this is not about equal pay.  We work hard to ensure that 
men and women are paid fairly and equally when they are in the same roles, 
performing similar work with similar knowledge, skills and abilities. In 2017 
Cubic introduced a grading structure in the UK to help us achieve and monitor 
this.  But our gender pay and in particular our bonus pay statistics reflect the 
fact that we currently employ more men than women, and specifically more 
men in professional, technical and managerial roles which typically offer higher 
salaries and bonuses.

Cubic Transportation Systems   |   Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Interestingly, in the context that women comprise 14% of our population, 
we found that 17% of our management roles are held by women, which is 
encouraging, although we would prefer to see women equally represented 
across all four quartile pay bands.
The Action Plan
Cubic Corporation takes diversity in all its forms very seriously and is in the 
process of establishing regional sub-committees to support the global Equality 
and Diversity Committee.
Our primary challenge is to attract more women to the business, and our 
first target must be to at least equal the national statistics in terms of female 
engineers.  But we believe this goal to be more complex than simply attracting 
and hiring more women into the business; more females need to see 
engineering as a career choice that is open to them.  To lend our support to this 
aim, in 2018 we will be partnering with the Women’s Engineering Society whose 
mission is to inspire and support girls and women to achieve their potential as 
engineers, applied scientists and technical leaders.
In addition to these efforts, we will conduct annual internal audits and peer 
group studies with regards to compensation. This will help us to ensure we 
are providing competitive and appropriate pay and bonuses to all individuals 
performing similar work in like roles.
Declaration
We confirm that the calculations, data and analysis contained in this report are 
accurate and that the methodology provided in The Equality Act 2010 (Gender 
Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 has been applied correctly.

Roger Crow 
Executive Vice President 
and Managing Director

Leanne Gravett 
Human Resources Director  

