                                        Skip to content ↓      Lady Manners School  Strive to attain      Accessibility     Font Size   A  A  A  A     Background Colour         Myvle WisePay       Menu      Home About Admissions Awards and Affiliations Giving to School Governing Body History of the School Ofsted and Our Performance Old Mannerians Parents' Association Policies and Procedures Pupil Premium Information School Aims Year 7 Catch-Up Fund News Calendar Emergency Closure Procedure Latest News Site Development Term Dates Vacancies School Life Absence from School Clubs and Activities Financial Support Keeping Safe New to the school? Payments to school School Day School Meals School Uniform Term Dates Transport Learning & Teaching Careers & Work Experience Curriculum Examinations Most Able and Ambitious Library Reports and Tracking Special Educational Needs and Disability Sixth Form Sixth Form Admissions Sixth Form Information for Parents Sixth Form Prospectus Financial Support Sixth Form Careers Lettings Lettings Information Lettings Enquiry Lettings Prices Contact Us Staff List Lettings Myvle WisePay   Facebook                 Looking for information on exams and revision? Click here     Fri  20 Apr No events today. Sat  21 Apr No events today. Sun  22 Apr Parents' Assocation Car Boot Sale 07:30 – 13:00 Mon  23 Apr Boys House Hockey All Day Year 12 Test Week All Day Year 11 Art Exam 09:00 – 16:00   Full Calendar     Seven Year 13 Chemists have entered the British Chemistry Olympiad. This leading chemistry competition, run by the Royal Society of Chemistry, is an opportunity to stretch and challenge post-16 chemistry students by testing their chemical knowledge problem solving skills.

Between them, the group achieved one gold, five silver and one bronze award. This is a fine achievement in what is a tough competition amongst the top chemistry students in the country. Very well done to them all! Find us on @ladymannersschool The first Parents' Association Car Boot Sale of the year happens this Sunday 22 April from 7.30am (7.00am for sellers) to 1.00pm.

The Parents' Association of Lady Manners School would really appreciate any offers of assistance in the run up to the event and during the morning itself (email parentsassociationlms@gmail.com). Alternatively, if you are a dab hand in the kitchen, perhaps you could bake a cake for them to sell to hungry car booters? Please leave any cakes for sale with school reception on Friday.

If you are not able to help on this occasion, do come along to buy or to sell...or just to browse and have a piece of cake or a bacon butty! Find us on @ladymannersschool Last Friday was a landmark day in Lady Manners School's journey towards the Dyslexia Friendly Schools Quality Mark.

In recognition that we are one of the first secondary schools to attempt this, we were invited to speak at the 2018 British Dyslexia Association (BDA) International Conference. Headteacher, Mr Meikle, and Assistant SENCO, Mr Askew, took to the stage to share our experiences of staff training, day to day changes and work to become dyslexia friendly. They joined experts from around the world in neuro-science, literacy, numeracy and other topics related to dyslexia and other specific learning difficulties.

Lady Manners School was invited by Professor Angela Fawcett, Vice President of the BDA, and Professor Rod Nicolson as part of a symposium about 'Positive Dyslexia at School, University and Work'.

Pictured are Mr Meikle and Professor Fawcett, who some parents met at our talk on 'Positive Dyslexia' last October.

Back at school, our work continues and we hope to apply for accreditation towards the end of the summer term. Find us on @ladymannersschool We are very proud to share with you the exciting news - if you haven't heard already - that one of our former students, Annie Last, has won England's first ever mountain biking medal at the Commonwealth Games. She did it in style by winning a gold medal in the mountain bike cross-country event on the Gold Coast last week. More details of the race are available on http://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/commonwealth-games/43734935

Many congratulations to Annie on this fantastic achievement! We are all extremely proud of her. Find us on @ladymannersschool Musicians from all year groups across the school had the exciting opportunity to play with the Northumbrian Ranters last Friday afternoon.

The Northumbrian Ranters are a group of talented young traditional musicians from across Northumberland, who stopped at Lady Manners School as part of their current tour. They led our musicians in several workshops during the afternoon. This was followed by a performance during which our musicians joined the Ranters to treat the audience to a series of traditional folk songs.

The performance provided a wonderful musical end to the week – thank you to the Northumbrian Ranters, and to our musicians for such a treat! Find us on @ladymannersschool        Update: Site Development  Vacancy: Teacher of Mathematics  Road Safety  Focus on the Premises Team  Sports Volunteer of the Year  Parent Governor Election             High Visibility | Sitemap  | Email Us  General Enquiries | Lower School | Upper School | Sixth Form | Parents' Association |  | Contact Us   © Lady Manners School  by e4education                  