Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

2017 

 

Diversity & Inclusion and HR Services 

Devon & Somerset 
Fire & Rescue Service 

March 2018 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service                                Page 1 of 12 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

DSFRS Gender Pay Gap Report 

Contents 

1.  Introduction 

2.  Methodology 

2.1  Pay within the Service 

2.2  Employee’s Working Hours 

2.3  Hourly Pay 

2.4  Bonus pay 

3.  Results and key issues 

3.1  Gender Pay Gap 

3.2  Pay by quartiles: hourly pay quartiles 

3.3  Key Issues 

4.  Where is the Gap coming from? 

4.1  Factors influencing the Gender Pay Gap 

4.2  Equal Pay 

4.3  Occupational Segregation in the Service 

4.4  Flexible working in the Service 

4.5  Total workforce Gender Pay Gap 

5.  Action Plan to reduce the Gender Pay Gap 

 

References 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

ACAS guidance 

  4 

4 

4 

5   

6 

6 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

7 

8 

10 

11 

11 

 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 2 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

Document Control 
 
Purpose 
The purpose of this report is to provide a narrative for the Gender Pay Gap results published 
by Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service (DSFRS) on the www.gender-pay-
gap.service.gov.uk to meet the requirements of the Equality Act 2010, Public Sector Equality 
Duty. The results on the website will be linked to this report published on Devon & Somerset 
Fire & Rescue Service (DSFRS) intranet and internet site. 
 
Distribution List 
Executive Board 
HRMD Members Committee 
Diversity & Inclusion Strategic Steering Group 
Public sharing for Government & DSFRS Website 
 
Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service (the Service) believe in equal treatment for all 
and this includes equal employment opportunities and equal treatment for all employees 
within the Service.  The Service is an equal pay employer based upon recent measurement 
of men and women in the same employment, performing equal work, with equal 
responsibilities, receiving equal pay using nationally established pay scales (‘Grey book’, 
‘Gold book’ and ‘Green book’) as identified within our Equal Pay Audit 2017.    
 
The Service is working to actively reflect the communities we serve in all areas of inclusion 
and diversity and although a recent recruitment campaign of whole time firefighters resulted 
in 33% of Wholetime new entrants being female, more work remains to be done to ensure 
equality for all, to increase the number of uniformed female staff from the current 4% of roles 
and to ensure that the Service fully reflects the communities it serves.  This report sets out a 
calculation of average difference in pay between male and female employees and sections 4 
and 5 ( ‘Where is the Gap coming from?’  and ‘Action Plan to Reduce Gender Pay Gap’)  
demonstrate that the Service is committed to doing everything possible to understand, 
reduce and eradicate the Gender Pay Gap. 
 
Declaration 
I can confirm that the data included within our Gender Pay Gap Report is accurate and has 
been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and 
Public Authorities) Regulations 2017. 
 
Glenn Askew  
Chief Fire Officer 
 
 
 
 

Sara Randall Johnson                       
Chair of Fire Authority 

 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 3 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Report 
 
1. Introduction 
 
New legislation, in force since April 2017, in relation to the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information, Specific Duties and Public Authorities) requires employers with 250 or 
more employees to publish statutory calculations every year showing how large the pay gap 
is between their male and female employees. Reports are required to be on the employer’s 
website for 3 years. 

 
The pay gap is the percentage difference between average hourly earnings for men and 
women. There are six calculations and the results must be published on the Devon & 
Somerset Fire & Rescue Service (“the Service”) website and a government website within 12 
months of the data point (31 March each year). The calculations are: 
 
Mean gender pay gap 

 

Median gender pay gap 

Mean bonus gap 

Median bonus gap 

Bonus proportions 

Quartile pay bands 

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male 
employees and that of female employees as a percentage of the male 
mean hourly rate. 
The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male 
employees and that of female employees as a percentage of the male 
median hourly rate. 
The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male employees 
and that paid to female employees as a percentage of the male mean 
bonus. 
The difference between the median bonus pay paid to male employees 
and that paid to female employees as a percentage of the male 
median bonus. 
The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were 
paid a bonus during the relevant period. 
The proportions of male and female employees in the lower, lower 
middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands. 

Pay within the Service 

 
2. Methodology 
 
2.1 
In the UK, various nationally agreed schemes of pay and conditions apply to all Fire and 
Rescue Services. There are the following categories of staff terms and conditions within the 
Service: 
 
Uniformed Staff: This includes Whole-time and On-call staff and also the Control Room 
uniformed staff. The remuneration levels for these staff are subject to national negotiation as 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 4 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

contained in the Scheme of Conditions of Service of the National Joint Council for Local 
Authority Fire & Rescue Services which is known as the “Grey Book”. Any other 
remuneration is subject to local agreement.  
 
Support Staff: This category is the non-uniformed employees who support our Operational 
Service. The Scheme of Conditions of Service for these employees is set out within the 
National Joint Council for Local Government Services known as the ”Green Book”.  
 
Executive Board Officers (including Chief Fire Officer): The Executive Board is a mix of 
uniformed Brigade Managers and non-uniformed Officers who are the Directors of the 
Service. The salary structure for Brigade Managers and other Executive Board members has 
previously been determined by the Authority and is subject to annual reviews in accordance 
with the Constitution and Scheme of Conditions of Service of the National Joint Council for 
Brigade Managers of Local Authorities’ Fire Brigades which is known as the “Gold Book”.  
 
Grey Book posts within the Service are classified according to national role maps, in line with 
guidance contained in various circulars published by the National Joint Council for Local 
Authority Fire & Rescue Services. Green Book posts are evaluated using the Greater 
London Provincial Council Job Evaluation Scheme which was specifically designed for local 
authorities.  
 
The job evaluation scheme for Green Book employees and national role maps for Grey Book 
employees provide assurance within the pay scales, i.e. men and women are paid equally 
for the work they do within the scales and within national conditions of service. 
 
Through undertaking an Equal Pay Audit, we are confident that men and women are paid 
equally for the work they do under the nationally approved (and union agreed) systems. 
Consequently, the emphasis in this report is on an analysis of the number of men and 
women in various categories who are in particular salary grades.   
 
2.2 

Employee’s working hours 

As part of the Grey Book, On-call Firefighters, i.e. those who respond from home or primary 
employment or from the local vicinity of the Fire Station, are paid an On-call fee or ‘Retainer’ 
fee which 10% of the full-time basic annual salary. This Retainer is for the staff to be 
available to attend emergency incidents occurring within agreed periods of the week. When 
attending emergency incidents or training then they are remunerated with an hourly rate of 
pay in accordance with the role they performed and at the same rate as Wholetime 
Firefighters who are full-time but have a shift working pattern. 

Within The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, 
Schedule1, Section 7, Employee’s working hours in a week, paragraph (8) states: 

(8) In this paragraph, “working hours”- 
(a) includes hours when an employee is available, and required to be available, at or near a 
place of work for the purposes of working unless the employee is at home, and (b) excludes 
any hours for which an employee is entitled to overtime pay. 
 
In considering this for our On-call staff who are available near to their station this will include 
hours when the employee is at home. However in Schedule 1, Section 2 Duty to publish 
annual information relating to pay, paragraph (3) states: 
 
(3) In compiling the information required by sub-paragraph (1), a relevant public authority is 

not required to include data relating to a relevant employee if- 

(a) the employee is employed under a contract personally to do work, and 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 5 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

(b) the public authority does not have, and it is not reasonably practicable for the public 

authority to obtain, the data. 

In terms of On-call staff, the Service does not hold data on the location from where the 
employee is providing availability from ie whether it is in their home. For this reason, the 
Service has not including the Retainer as part of the calculation of On-call hourly pay. All 
other payments that On-call staff receive have been taken into account in the calculation of 
hourly pay. 

The Service also has 10 out of 70 On-call stations that are paid a salary based on historic 
levels of emergency incidents. The salary includes an On-call Retainer fee but again, the 
Service does not hold data on the location from where the employee is providing availability 
and for this reason, these staff have not been included in the calculation of hourly pay. 

The Service employs Flexi-duty Officers who are full-time employees but will respond to 
Emergency Incidents to provide Incident Command. This could be during normal business 
hours or during periods outside of the normal day ie evenings and weekends. For these 
staff, they receive a 20% allowance for providing positive working hours and standby cover. 
For the calculation of hourly pay, the 20% allowance has been included. The same principle 
has been used for other Support Staff who also provide standby cover.  

The Service has a Training Allowance paid for required additional hours and these hours are 
incorporated into the working hours. 

2.3 

Hourly Pay 

All data for the purpose of the Gender Pay Gap calculations has been extracted from the HR 
system ‘Workforce’, the availability system ‘Gartan’ (both used within the Service) and the 
payroll system ‘Prism’ (used by the external payroll provider).  The data provided by the 
Service’s Human Resources Department was anonymised and analysed using Microsoft 
Excel 2013. Data is correct as of 31/03/2017. 

Employees included in the calculations are Full Time workers, Part Time workers (with job 
sharers counting as two), Casual workers and Consultants if they personally perform the 
work. Pay covers all elements of normal remuneration (i.e. sick pay, annual leave pay, 
maternity pay, flexible shift pay) and car allowance. Not included are benefits in kind e.g. 
child care vouchers and other salary sacrifice schemes, expenses, overtime and redundancy 
payments. 

The Service has used a reference period of March for staff with normal working hours and 
anyone who was not employed for the whole of March or were on unpaid leave or maternity 
leave in the reference period have been excluded.  

For On-call staff, where weekly hours can be variable, the pay and working hours are based 
on the average of a three month period i.e. January-March 2017 preceding the snapshot 
date. Any On-call staff who were not employed for the whole of January-March 2017 or were 
on unpaid leave or maternity leave in the reference period have been excluded. Any On-call 
staff whose derived “annualised” hours were less than 104, i.e. minimum annual hours for 
On-call staff were also excluded. 

Bonus pay 

2.4 
The Service does not offer a bonus scheme therefore this calculation has not been 
performed. Additional Responsibility Allowances (ARAs) and Continuous Professional 
Development (CPD) payments are included in ordinary pay.  
 
 

 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 6 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

3. Results and key issues  
 
3.1   Gender Pay Gap 
Mean pay for the Service shows a gap in favour of men of 11%, against a gap across the UK 
of men earning 18.1% more than women in April 2016 - Office for National Statistics (ONS). 
The median pay gap indicates there is a pay disparity in typical rates of pay between males 
and females of 8.2%. 
 
All Staff 
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
 
3.2 
24.5% of people in the lower pay quartile are female with the percentage declining going up 
the quartiles to only 3% in the upper quartile.  
 

Pay by quartiles: hourly pay quartiles 

Female 
£13.89 
£13.77 

Male 
£15.60 
£15.00 

Gap £ 
£1.71 
£1.23 

Gap % 
11% 
8.2% 

Quartile 

Male 
75.8% 
93.0% 
92.6% 
90.5% 

Female 
24.2% 
7.0% 
7.4% 
9.5% 

Lower 
Lower Middle 
Upper Middle 
Upper 
 
Also see Figure 3 in section 4.5. 
 
3.2   Key issues 
The key issues identified as contributors to the current Gender Pay Gap are: 

  women are under-represented in senior operational roles; 
  women are under-represented in all uniformed roles other than in Control;  
 
  Women are under-represented in all quartiles due to the low percentage of females 

the majority of Green Book posts in the lowest two grades are women; 

in the overall workforce. 

  Occupational segregation remains a feature of the Fire and Rescue labour market: 

Equal Pay 

4.  Where is the Gap coming from? 
 
4.1 General factors influencing an organisational Gender Pay Gap 
Various factors, including occupational segregation, flexible working and discrimination 
(Equal Pay), impact on the Gender Pay Gap within organisations nationwide and the impact 
of each factor depends on the nature of the organisation.  
 
4.2 
The Service is committed to achieving a diverse workforce.  Providing equal pay for equal 
work is central to the concept of rewarding people fairly for what they do. The Service is 
confident that it is paying the same salary for equivalent roles. Determining the pay of 
Service employees is done through national collective bargaining for all staff. 
 
The Service’s pay system covers Green Book, Grey Book and Gold Book grades/roles and 
pay scales. The Green Book grades range from administrative to managerial level (2-11). 
Grey Book roles include Firefighter to Area Manager. Gold Book covers the roles above 
Area Manager. The level of responsibility varies between different roles and all roles have 
been evaluated to determine the appropriate pay grade. 
 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 7 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

Occupational Segregation in the Service 

 
Each Green Book grade has a set pay range with pay increments in between grades. Staff 
are expected to move through the pay range for their grade until they reach the top of the 
grade. Consequently, the longer someone has been in a grade the more they will earn 
(subject to the maximum of the grade) irrespective of their gender.  
 
The Service is therefore confident that the identified gender pay gap does not stem from 
paying males and females differently for the same or equivalent work (i.e. discrimination).  
Rather, it is a result of the roles in which males and females work within the Service and the 
salaries these roles attract. This is known as occupational segregation (see paragraph 4.3). 
 
The Service carries out Equal Pay Audits. A report has been published on data extracted at 
the same time as the data required of the Gender Pay Gap report (31 March 2017). 
 
4.3 
 
Occupational segregation is defined as the distribution of workers across and within 
occupations, based upon demographic characteristics, most often gender.  The nature of 
occupations in the Service, and as a result the male/female distribution, varies between staff 
groups and this is explained below. 
 
Wholetime 
 
The uniformed element of the workforce of the Service consisted mainly of male staff who 
occupy 96% of roles. Of the 4% women in the On Call and Wholetime staff groups, none 
occupied any of the higher paid roles i.e. Group Manager and above. 
 
Wholetime 
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
There were no Wholetime women in the highest grades, with none above Station Manager 
and slightly fewer, proportionately, than men at Watch Manager (20% of the 20 Wholetime 
women compared to 22% of the 547 men). 55% of the women were at Firefighter level, 
compared to 46% of the men. 
 
As many allowances are linked to roles of Watch Manager and above, many women did not 
receive them as part of their terms & conditions, which reduced their average hourly rate in 
comparison to their male colleagues. 
 
On Call 
 
On Call 
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
Within the On Call staff group, of the 1,091 men, 8% were Watch Managers, 18% were Crew 
Managers and 74% were Firefighters.  Of the 48 women, none were Watch Managers, 17% 
were Crew Managers and 83% were Firefighters.  

Female 
£14.51 
£14.96 

Male 
£14.99 
£15.04 

Gap % 
3.2% 
0.6% 

Male 
£17.12 
£15.24 

Female 
£15.12 
£14.07 

Gap £ 
£2.00 
£1.17 

Gap % 
11.7% 
7.7% 

Gap £ 
£0.48 
£0.08 

There are 3 role levels within the On Call staff group (Wholetime has 8 role levels), which 
limits the difference between pay for the highest role and the lowest role. Allowances paid in 
this duty system often relate to additional responsibilities and are available to all roles. 
 
 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 8 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

Gap % 
-1.0% 
1.7% 

Gap £ 
-£0.15 
£0.25 

Male 
£14.68 
£14.49 

Female 
£14.83 
£14.24 

As a result of these differences in relation to the Wholetime terms & conditions, the Gender 
Pay Gap within the On Call staff group is 3.2% (mean) and 0.6% (median). 
 
The low percentage of women in the uniformed part of the workforce is a matter of national 
attention.  Research shows that many women in the community don’t consider joining the 
uniformed fire & rescue service for various reasons, including that it is a male-dominated 
environment and a perception that the work is too physical or too dangerous. 
 
Control 
 
Control 
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
There is less segregation in what is generally perceived as “men’s work versus women’s 
work” within the Green Book and Control staff groups where the roles are, in the main, more 
office based.  This is reflected in the percentages of men and women in those roles, i.e. 46% 
of Green Book and 76% of Control staff were female. 
 
There were no men in the highest grades in Control, with 1 female Group Manager and 3 
female Station Managers. Compared to the overall ratio of women to men in control, there 
were proportionately fewer women than men at Watch Manager and Crew Manager.  48% of 
the 29 Control women are at Firefighter level, compared to 22% of the 9 men. 
 
The higher roles in Control (Station and Group Manager), as with the Wholetime staff group, 
also attract flexibility allowances. As there were no men in those roles, the pay gap in this 
staff group is in favour of women, i.e. -1.0% (mean) and 1.7% (median). 
 
Green Book staff 
 
Green Book  
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
Overall there were 121 women in Green Book (Support, non-uniformed) roles and 137 men. 
Whilst women were well represented amongst this staff group, there were many more 
women than men in the most junior posts, grades 2 and 3, with most of the women in clerical 
or administrative posts and most of the men in caretaking or technician roles. There were 
significantly more men than women in most of the middle grades (grades 4, 5, 7 and 8, 
though not 6), and also at grades 10 and 11. The numbers at grade 9 were equal. 
 
The above can also be seen in the male/female distribution in the pay quartiles of Green 
Book staff. 

Male 
£16.00 
£14.30 

Female 
£13.91 
£12.00 

Gap £ 
£2.09 
£2.30 

Gap % 
13.1% 
16.1% 

Figure 1  Male/female distribution in the pay quartiles of Green Book staff 

Lower quartile 

Lower middle  

Upper middle 

quartile 

quartile 

Upper quartile 

24% 

31% 

76% 

69% 

44% 

56% 

38% 

62% 

male

female

male

female

male

female

male

female

 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 9 of 12 

 

 
 

 

 

Male 
£12.10 
£13.32 

 
Casual Workers 
 
Casual 
Mean hourly rate 
Median hourly rate 
 
The majority of our group of Casual workers is involved in Community Fire Safety work, 
which includes general community activities (Advocates) and working with Children and 
Young Persons (CYP worker). A smaller group consists of individuals who support the 
training function of the Service’s Training Academy or provide general administrative 
support. 
 
Figure 2   Distribution of male/female casual workers in three groups 
 

Female 
£10.80 
£9.62 

Gap £ 
£1.30 
£3.70 

Gap % 
10.7% 
27.8% 

Advocates 

28% 

72% 

Female

Male

Academy & Support 
 

10% 

 

 
 

CYP 

15% 

 
 
 

 
 

90% 

 

female male

 
 

85% 

Female Male

The Advocates have the lowest average hourly pay and the Academy Casuals the highest. 
This results in the lower 2 quartiles all by Advocates on the lowest hourly rate, the Upper 
Middle quartile mainly consisting of CYP individuals with an average pay 37% higher. This 
difference of pay between the lower 2 quartiles and the upper 2, explains the resulting 
gender pay gap of 10.7% (mean) and 27.8% (median).  
 
Although the Gender Pay Gap and Equal Pay calculations demonstrate occupational 
segregation, they are not able to identify whether there is a ‘glass ceiling’ (a metaphor used 
to represent an invisible barrier that keeps a given demographic from rising beyond a certain 
level in a hierarchy) within any organisation or within any individual staff group.  
 
As with most companies in Britain, the number of women holding the most senior jobs in the 
boardroom of the Service (1 of 5 positions in the Executive Board) has barely changed in the 
past 10 years, despite a series of government-backed initiatives to boost gender diversity. 
 
4.4 
The Service is committed to ensuring that every employee, each with their own family 
commitments and personal aspirations, is facilitated in achieving a work life balance, and 
recognises that employees perform best and achieve the highest standards when this is so. 
Solutions to improve or maintain employees’ work-life balance should be achieved through 
discussion and agreement between employees and managers and will often have benefits to 
both individuals and the Service.  
 
The Service has a Flexible Working policy and a Family Leave policies which outline a 
number of options in relation to flexible working.  It is recognised, however, that one size 
does not fit all and managers and employees are asked to look at creative solutions to 

Flexible working in the Service 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 10 of 
12 

 

 
 

 

 

balance Service requirements with those of the individual, taking account of fairness and 
consistency in approach. 
 
Across the Service, 28% of men were part-time (most being On Call firefighters providing 
part cover) and 34% of women (most in Green Book roles). The proportion of part-time to 
full-time workers was consistent across men and women in the Wholetime and On Call 
categories, but there were more part-time women in Control (where 21% of women and 11% 
of men are part-time), and substantially more in Green Book roles (36% of women and only 
9% of men).  
 
The average full-time equivalent salary for part-time people is 7% less than the Service 
average. It has been established through analysis as part of the Equal Pay Audit that this is 
partly due to the fact that only 2% of part-time employees are at senior level, compared to 
6% across the service.  
 
4.5 
Although the Gender Pay Gap within Control and On Call staff groups are small, when all the 
staff groups are combined the pay gap widens to 11%. 
 
This is partly because the Service employs more Grey Book employees and they are 
generally paid more than Green Book employees in otherwise similar posts. Of all Service 
employees, 89% are male, and 92% (1,638) of these are Wholetime or On Call, so their 
generally higher pay will affect the overall difference in hourly pay. This results in Wholetime 
staff, mostly men, being included in the upper pay quartiles. 
 

Total workforce Gender Pay Gap 

Action Plan to reduce the Gender Pay Gap 

5  
Reducing the gender pay gap in the Service is beneficial for employees and the community 
we serve. Research shows that a more diverse and inclusive workforce helps organisations 
develop by bringing new skills, creativity and innovation, better decision-making and higher 
staff satisfaction and retention. These benefits will apply to Devon and Somerset Fire and 
Rescue Service. 
 
In the UK today, women earn on average 18% less than men. The gender pay gap exists 
because women tend to work in lower-paid occupations and sectors, and occupy less senior 
roles. This is reflected in the Service’s data. Many women take time out of the labour market 
and work part-time because of unequal sharing of care responsibilities. Unconscious bias, 
including stereotypes, barriers due to policies/processes and workplace culture are also 
factors which the Service acknowledges and aims to address. 
 
The Service is taking short, medium and long-term approaches to achieving a more diverse 
workforce in order to improve the way we deliver services to the community of Devon & 
Somerset. Whilst we have improved in this area, we know that we can do more and 
recognise that patterns of under-representation and differences in outcomes can be 
challenged through positive action programmes. Notwithstanding national drivers, the 
diversity of skills, knowledge, perspectives and experiences within the workforce will ensure 
we will be better placed to identify and meet the needs of our community.   
 
The 2014 Equal Pay Audit included an action plan with some actions which remain relevant 
in view of the current Gender Pay Gap data. These actions are focussing on:  
1. 

increasing the number of women applying for senior roles in the operational and non-
operational workforce 
increasing the attraction and recruitment of women into the operational workforce 

2. 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 11 of 
12 

 

 
 

 

 

3. 

retaining women by identifying and addressing barriers to continue and progress their 
careers throughout their working life 

 
Through positive action we are raising the profile of females joining the Fire and Rescue 
Service. Explicit Positive Action activity has taken place in the recruitment of On Call, 
Wholetime, Control and non-operational staff, by targeting on social media, advertising on 
specific recruitment agencies and our website. This has been successful considering the 
increase in interest shown by women to become an On Call Firefighter (14% of applications 
in 2017) and intake of female operational staff, both Wholetime (25%) and On Call.  
 
Positive Action activities will continue and expand now the Service has completed a positive 
action briefing paper and a toolkit for our recruiting managers in order to equip them with the 
skills and ability to plan appropriate activity. 
 
In addition, we will 
1.  Carefully consider the make-up of interview panels for every recruitment and promotion 

process 

2.  Engage with research to identify barriers to progression for women  
3. 

Implement unconscious bias training to raise awareness around bias affecting 
recruitment and progression decisions 
Identify and remove barriers to flexible working 

4. 
5.  Through national collaboration, research and develop Service understanding of the 
physiological differences between men and women and at different stages in life in 
relation to operational roles. 

 
In order to ensure the Service will be able to meet the needs of the community, new ways of 
working will be explored. In doing so, particularly the effects of terms & conditions on 
underrepresented groups will be considered in detail to ensure they don’t cause barriers for 
either joining the Service or progression. 
 
Further actions to reduce the Gender Pay Gap and increase diversity within the workforce 
will be developed through the Service’s Diversity & Inclusion Strategic Steering Group and 
captured in a plan which will also align to the new People strategy. 
 

 

 

Devon & Somerset Fire & Rescue Service Gender Pay Gap Report                                   Page 12 of 
12 

 

 
 

