Gender Pay Gap
2017 - 2018

Foreword

Last year the Government introduced world-leading legislation that made it statutory for 
organisations with 250 or more employees to report annually on their gender pay gap.  As a 
Local Authority we are governed by the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017 which came into force on 31 March 2017. These regulations underpin the Public 
Sector Equality Duty to consider how organisational policies and decision affect people who are 
protected under the Act.

The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average pay between 
women and men in the workforce.  It provides a framework within which gender pay gaps can be 
surfaced so that, both inside and outside of the workplace, we can think constructively about why 
gender pay gaps exist and what to do about them.

Dependent upon the average level of an organisations gender pay gap, this can indicate that 
there may be a number of issues to deal with and more detailed analysis may help to identify what 
those issues are.  At Tameside we are committed to monitoring our gender pay gap and ensuring 
fair pay for all.  This first report sets out our starting position, from which we will drive further 
improvement through analysis, specific interventions and targeted actions.

Tameside is committed to the principles of consistency, fairness and transparency, supporting 
the fair treatment and reward of all staff irrespective of any differences.  We implemented the 
living wage foundation rate in September 2016, support flexible working practices and promote 
employee progression through our career development scheme.  These initiatives enable people 
to grow in our organisation whilst balancing family life and other commitments.

Tameside Council is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity and choice for all 
employees; making Tameside Council an employer of choice.  A diverse and inclusive workforce 
which develops talent is good for everyone, and reflects the community we work within.

Steven Pleasant MBE
Chief Executive, and Accountable Officer, Tameside & Glossop CCG

2

Background

All public sector employers are required to publish information about gender pay gaps by 31 
March 2018.  This information is based on a snapshot date of pay on 31 March 2017.  At this date 
the Tameside workforce comprised of 63% females and 37% males.

This analysis looks at the gender pay differences within Tameside Council, focusing on the overall 
pay difference between the male and female workforce.  A positive pay gap indicates that men are 
paid more, whereas a negative pay gap indicates that women are paid more.  Where the pay gap 
exceeds +/-3% it is good practice to analyse the workforce data to understand the reasons for 
the gender pay difference.

Women paid more

Men paid more

-3%

Insignificant pay gap

+3%

The gender pay gap is different to equal pay.  Equal pay relates to men and women receiving 
equal pay for equal work, not meeting this requirement has been unlawful for over 40 years.  The 
gender pay gap is a measure of disparity in pay between the average earnings of males and 
females.  This can be measured in various ways.

What do we report on?

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay 
relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees.
The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of male 
full-pay relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant 
employees.

Quartile bands

The proportion of males and females in each quartile band

3

Mean/Median Calculations

How the Median is calculated

Women

Pay (within pay grade)

Men

Pay (within pay grade)

Lowest

Highest

Lowest

Highest

Gender pay gap =

Median pay men - Median pay women

Median pay men

x 100

How the Mean is calculated

Women

Pay (within pay grade)

Men

Pay (within pay grade)

Lowest

Highest

Lowest

Highest

Gender pay gap =

Mean pay men - Mean pay women

Mean pay men

x 100

4

Mean/Median figures

Interpreting the Mean/Median figures

 

 

 

•  A positive percentage figure (which almost all organisations are likely to have) reveals that 
typically or overall, female employees have lower pay or bonuses than male employees.

•  A negative percentage figure (which some organisations may have) reveals that typically 
or overall, male employees have lower pay or bonuses than female employees.

•  A zero percentage figure (which is highly unlikely, but could exist for a median pay gap 
where a lot of employees are concentrated in the same pay grade) would reveal no gap 
between the pay or bonuses of typical male and female employees or completely equal 
pay or bonuses overall.

Using these two different types of average is helpful to give a more balanced overview of an 
employer’s overall gender pay gap:

 

 

•  Mean averages are useful because they place the same value on every number they use, 
giving a good overall indication of the gender pay gap, but very large or small pay rates 
or bonuses can ‘dominate’ and distort the answer. For example, mean averages can be 
useful where most employees in an organisation receive a bonus but could be less useful 
in an organisation where the vast majority of bonus pay is received by a small number of 
board members.

•  Median averages are useful to indicate what the ‘typical’ situation is i.e. in the middle 
of an organisation and are not distorted by very large or small pay rates or bonuses. 
However, this means that not all gender pay gap issues will be picked up. For example, 
a median average might show a better indication of the ‘middle of the road’ pay gap 
in a sports club with a mean average distorted by very highly paid players and board 
members, but it could also fail to pick up as effectively where the pay gap issues are 
most pronounced in the lowest paid or highest paid employees.

5

Executive Summary

Like most public sector organisations, Tameside’s workforce has a higher percentage of females; 
63% female and 37% males. 

Tameside’s workforce undertakes a wide range of jobs including: engineering, health, education, 
finance, human resources, information technology and communication, social care and 
professional business support services.  This diverse range of jobs provides a number of different 
career opportunities and pathways for employees to develop.

Diagram 1: Total Workforce Demographic

63%

Workforce
total female

1513

Workforce
total male
887

37%

Workforce

Total2400

6

Executive Summary

Diagram 2: Total Organisation Demographic

Quartile

Total people in Quartile

% Female % Male

Upper

600

59% 41%

Upper Middle

600

73% 27%

Lower Middle

600

Lower

600

62% 38%

59% 41%

1513

887

Diagram 3: Quartile Profile

Quartile

Hourly pay up to

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

£10.15

£12.61

£16.08

£89.75

7

Executive Summary

Diagram 4: Workforce Distribution by Gender
Quartile

Count of female

Count of male

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

352 (23%)

374 (25%)

436 (29%)

351 (23%)

248 (28%)

226 (25.5%)

164 (18.5%)

249 (28%)

Females heavily populate the middle quartiles whereas the distribution of males is more evenly 
spread with a slightly higher percentage in the upper quartile.

1513

887

2400

Women 63.04%                Men 36.96%

8

Gender Pay Gap
Mean - 2017 - 2018

Average hourly rate of pay and the percentage difference between

GAP
£0.44p
+3.03%

£14.07
Median - 2017 - 2018

£14.51

Middle hourly rate of pay and the percentage difference between

GAP
£0.70p
-5.81%

£12.74

£12.04

9

Gender Pay Gap

Tameside’s mean gender pay gap is +3.03% meaning that on average females have lower pay 
than males.  The positive mean percentage reflects that men on average earn more due to there 
being more men populating the senior jobs within the Local Authority.  Whilst this demonstrates 
there is a gender pay gap of +3.03%, this does compare favourably with the national gender pay 
gap of +18%.

Overall there is a higher percentage of males in the highest paid jobs (28%), compared to 23% 
of females which results in a positive mean gender pay gap.  However the median gender pay 
gap is -5.81% highlighting that females, on average earn more than males.  This higher median 
percentage reflects that more females populate jobs that are in the middle pay range (pay grades 
F to H).

Tameside’s low gender pay gap has been achieved through a variety of means, in particularly:

 

 

• Promotion of flexible working and family friendly procedures 

• Application of a rigorous process for job evaluation and payment principles

We will continue to monitor our workforce, empower talent at all levels and support flexible 
working approaches to enable people to grow and develop within the organisation.

10

