A BETTER LIFE,
A BETTER WORLD.

Panasonic UK
GENDER PAY GAP
Report 2017

Introduction

In April 2017 new legislation came into force whereby 
employers with more than 250 employees are required 
to publish their gender pay gap.

The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay 
between all men and women in a workforce. But crucially this 
measure does not take into account equal pay for equal work. 
Equal pay deals with the pay(cid:2)differences between men and 
women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value.

The importance of people and their well being has been a 
fundamental feature of Panasonic’s Business Philosophy for the 
past 100 years.  Panasonic recognises that our success is 
propelled by the creativity and dedication of our highly skilled, 

experienced employees and the Company works hard to foster a 
culture where people are treated equally, with respect and are 
recognised for the contribution they make. We acknowledge that 
our median pay gap is above the UK average and that a gender 
pay gap does exist.  We accept our responsibility in addressing 
this.  We pride ourselves on fairness and equality and are 
confident that men and women are paid equally for doing 
equivalent jobs with equivalent experience across the Company. 

Our gender pay gap is principally driven by a greater proportion of 
men in more senior positions which typically attract higher salary 
levels.  Our overall workforce profile is predominantly male which 
also influences the gender pay gap significantly. We commit to 
focusing on how we can challenge trends and attract more 
women into the Panasonic fold.

The Key Gender Pay figures for Panasonic UK

This table shows our 
median and mean 
gender pay and 
bonus gap based on 
hourly rates of pay as 
at the snapshot date 
of 5 April 2017, and 
bonuses paid in the 
year to 5 April 2017.

Mean

Median

Pay quartiles
Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile.

Male

Female

Gender
Pay Gap

Gender Bonus

Pay Gap

38.3

64.4

41.7

58.6

47.0%

65.7%

79.1%

94.1%

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

53.0%

34.3%

20.9%

5.9%

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment

MALE63.5

FEMALE77.9

Analysing the Gap
 
  We understand that the gender gap arises because our overall workforce is  
  predominantly male at 71.59% and women hold fewer senior positions within  
  Panasonic UK than men. Whilst women made up 28.41% of our workforce,  
  only 5.9% of employees in the upper quartile are women.

  Our analysis shows a similar bonus gap which, despite 77.9% of women 
  being in receipt of a bonus we still have a bonus gap of 58.6% which is 
  driven by fewer women in senior positions where higher bonuses are paid.

This report has been prepared in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 

and Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017

This statement was approved by 

Panasonic Europe Limited Director of 

Corporate Finance – Josep Betorz

Bridging the GAP

We recognise that there is work to be done in terms of bridging the 
Gender pay and bonus gaps. On our agenda for the coming year 
2018-2019 is a full review of the pay and grading structure for all 
employees below manager level.  Whilst we truly believe that we pay 
employees equally for work of equal value, we are also planning to 
conduct an equal pay audit in order to more fully understand the 
gender pay gap and ensure fair pay within Panasonic UK.

What are we
doing already?

We are making positive steps with a number of Company schemes.

We provide training for all managers 
with recruitment responsibilities to 
w
ensure that the recruitment process is 
ensu
bias free to ensure the optimum 
bias fre
opportunity for an equal intake of 
oppoortrtunit
men and women.
men an

o m orrow

lent for T

a
T

o o st

B

Panasonic runs a two year programme for 
non management employees to help 
nurture leaders for Panasonic in the future.  
The programmed is focused on creating a pool 
of motivated, driven and committed individuals 
who will take Panasonic forward.  In 2017 two 
thirds of our Talent for Tomorrow programme 
for 2017 in the UK was made up of women.   

Panasonic has created a career 
development framework called BOOST to 
encourage employees to optimise their 
career goals.  A higher proportion of the UK’s 
female employee population than male has 
been represented on the BOOST career 
development sessions which have been run in 
the last few years.

