Gender Pay Gap Report 
City Facilities Management (UK) Ltd
About us
City  Facilities  Management  (UK)  Ltd  was  established  in  1995  and 
provides  dedicated,  total  facilities  management  services  across  over 
600 retail locations in the UK. We are part of City, one of the world’s 
largest,  privately  owned  facilities  management  companies,  with  over 
12,000 colleagues across five continents. 
We  are  proud  of  our  culture  and  our  commitment  to  our  people. 
Succession  planning  and  colleague  development  is  a  key  part  of 
our  people  strategy  and  we  firmly  believe  in  providing  progression 
opportunities and helping each colleague reach their full potential.
The  following  report  has  been  produced  in  accordance  with  the 
Government’s  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap 
Information) 
Regulations 2017 with a snapshot date of 5 April 2017.
Workforce demographics and  
gender pay gap
Female/Male colleagues

52.69%

Pay quartiles
A (Lower quartile)

47.31%

The  chart  to  the  left  shows  that 
women currently represent 45% of 
the workforce.
Males  and  females  are  equally 
represented  in  cleaning  roles  but 
males  predominantly  hold  roles 
with a handyperson element.  
Females  are  under  represented  in 
engineering and technical roles. 
Males  and  females  are  equally 
represented  at  managerial 
level 
and a third of head level positions 
are held by females. 
Males  and  females  are  equally 
represented on our group board.
13.03%
0.0%
18.1%

45.19%

54.81%

   

 F   

 M 

City FM (UK) Ltd Mean Gender Pay Gap 
City FM (UK) Ltd Median Gender Pay Gap 
UK’s National Mean Gender Pay Gap 
Source: Office of National Statistics 2016

B (Lower middle quartile)

C (Upper middle quartile)

D (Upper quartile)

54.17%

45.83%

40.40%

59.60%

33.76%

66.24%

 

 F   

 M   

Gender distribution across City FM (UK) Ltd is represented in four equally sized hourly pay quartiles, shown above.  Proportionally more men hold 
managerial, engineering and technical positions, which are higher paid. 

% of female population in each quartile

% of male population in each quartile

19.97%

27.45%

29.72%

22.86%

31.16%

21.23%

15.39%

32.22%

The  charts  to  the  left  show  how  each  gender’s  population  is 
represented across the four quartiles.
Almost 20% of females are in the upper quartile compared with 
31% of males.

 A (Lower quartile)
 B (Lower middle quartile)

 C (Upper middle quartile)
 D (Upper quartile)

Gender bonus gap
The regulations define bonus as including commission, recognition and length of service awards in the form of cash and vouchers.  The proportion 
of each gender in receipt of a bonus and the gender bonus gap at City FM (UK) Ltd is outlined below:

Mean Gender Bonus Gap  55.30%
Median Gender Bonus Gap  0.0%

Only  managerial,  engineering  supervisory  positions  and  business 
development roles are eligible for bonus and/or commission within City 
FM (UK) Ltd and around 50% of males and females received a bonus. 
The definition of bonus in the regulations includes recognition awards 
and long service awards - all colleagues, regardless of role, are eligible to 
receive these awards and this explains the 0.0% median gap. 

(F) 50.03% (M) 48.80%

The tables above show the gender pay gap at City FM (UK) Ltd.  This is 
a snapshot of the difference between the average hourly pay levels of 
all women compared to all men, irrespective of their role or level in the 
organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s average pay.  
The hourly pay figure used to calculate the difference includes all items 
specified  in  the  regulations,  such  as  location  allowances  and  shift 
payments.
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly 
rate of pay for women, compared to the average hourly rate of pay for 
men, within a company.
The median represents the middle point of a population. If you lined up 
all of the women at a company and all of the men, the median pay gap 
is the difference between the hourly rate of pay for the middle woman 
compared to the hourly rate of pay for the middle man.
All City FM (UK) Ltd colleagues working in the same role and location, 
regardless of gender, are paid the same  hourly rate of pay. 

Bridging the gap
As a facilities management company, City FM (UK) Ltd faces the same challenges as other employers in the sector in recruiting women into roles. In the UK, 
only 4% of the industry’s workforce is made up of women* however we are committed to increasing the number of females who apply for roles and progress 
their career within City FM (UK) Ltd. 
We have taken steps to improve our approach and working conditions for women including the enhancement of maternity pay, promoting flexible working, 
a childcare voucher scheme and creating ‘bridging roles’ to facilitate progression from roles typically filled by female colleagues into technical roles.
Apprenticeships are a crucial element of our resourcing and talent development strategy. We promote our apprenticeship programme nationally, feature 
female apprentices on our marketing materials and facilitate their attendance at the Scottish Apprenticeship Show to encourage female attendees to 
engage with us.  We also have a ’Women in IT‘ apprenticeship strategy and actively look for opportunities to talk to and encourage young people, including 
females, into starting their career in IT through our apprenticeship programmes.  
We aim to improve our gender pay gap over the next 12 months by setting out a strategy which includes attracting more female apprentices to technical 
roles and encouraging females to participate in our Pathways management and leadership programme. This is open to all colleagues and in 2017, 50% of 
our participants were female.
For further information on City FM (UK) Ltd visit www.cityfm.com | (*Source: Women and the Economy, House of Commons Briefing Paper, March 2017)

