Gender pay gap report 2017

Gender pay gap reporting
At Infineum UK Ltd, we believe our business success depends 
on attracting and retaining great people and creating an 
inclusive environment where all colleagues, regardless of 
differences, can develop to the best of their abilities.

We pay men and women in comparable roles equitably. 
However, like many other organisations in the UK, Infineum 
UK Ltd does have a gender pay gap. Infineum UK Ltd has a 
mean gender pay gap of 25% due primarily to there being 
a higher proportion of men than women in senior roles in 
the organisation. 

NAME: •A/W Infineum 4 col mark•
SPEC: Process colours: Infineum dark blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 72%/Black 18.5%

Infineum light blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 11%

USAGE: Artwork

In order to address our gender pay gap we are committed to 
improving the representation of females in our senior roles.
Over the last three years the proportion of females in senior 
leadership positions at Infineum UK Ltd has increased from 
14% to 21% and continuing to improve this is part of our 
core business strategy.

Infineum UK Ltd gender pay gap

Mean gender pay gap 

Median gender pay gap 

25%

14%

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile

46.4

53.6%

40.6

59.4

39.6

60.4

30.9

69.1

Lower quartile

Lower middle quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Upper quartile 

Infineum UK Ltd bonus pay gap

Mean gender bonus gap 

Median gender bonus gap 

50%

25%

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment

If we remove the 

proportion of our annual bonus 

which is paid in the relevant 
pay period, our mean pay gap 

reduces to 19%.  

This more closely aligns with 
the national average of 18.2%1.

Male

Female

All colleagues received an 
annual bonus regardless of 

gender if they were employed 
in the qualifying period. The 
value of bonus is higher for 
more senior positions and 
Infineum UK Ltd has more 
men than women in senior 
positions, which accounts for 

50% gender bonus gap.

89%

86%

These figures differ from 100% as not every colleague was employed in the qualifying period

© 2018 Infineum International Limited. All rights reserved.

Gender pay gap report 2017

Gender pay gap analysis
Analysis of the gender pay gap shows that the 25% mean pay gap and 14% median pay gap is largely 
driven by there being fewer women in senior leadership positions.

NAME: •A/W Infineum 4 col mark•
SPEC: Process colours: Infineum dark blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 72%/Black 18.5%

USAGE: Artwork

Infineum light blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 11%

In addition, more than six times the number of women than 
men take advantage of the ﬂexible working options offered 
by Inﬁneum UK Ltd and these reduced hours mean they take 
home salaries commensurate with fewer hours worked. This 
impacts our bonus pay gap as the annual bonus is prorated 
for those choosing not to work full time hours.

We have identiﬁed that currently 21% of our senior leadership 
positions are held by women and we are taking steps to 
increase this. We have already seen over the last three years 
an increase in the proportion of women in these roles. 

Our pay policies and practices ensure equal pay for equivalent 
jobs. We use the Hay job evaluation methodology for grading 
jobs which underpins how we reward colleagues. Our pay 
philosophy rewards performance, and we carefully review 
annual performance ratings to eliminate any potential biases.

As with the pay gap, the bonus gap is impacted by the 
proportion of men and women at different levels of the 
organisation. There are fewer women in senior roles where 
the bonus target is higher.

© 2018 Inﬁneum International Limited. All rights reserved.

Gender pay gap report 2017

What are we doing about the gender pay gap?
Inﬁneum UK Ltd is committed to addressing the gender pay gap we see today. Creating an 
inclusive environment is an integral element of our business strategy and ensures that all 
colleagues can reach their potential.

USAGE: Artwork

NAME: •A/W Infineum 4 col mark•
SPEC: Process colours: Infineum dark blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 72%/Black 18.5%

Infineum light blue Cyan 100%/Magenta 11%

Inclusiveness & diversity approach
> In 2015 we launched our global inclusiveness and diversity campaign led by one of our executives. This started 

with focus groups to understand how colleagues globally rated Inclusiveness and Diversity at Inﬁneum UK Ltd. This 
led to a global programme of unconscious bias awareness sessions to highlight issues of diversity and inclusion to 
ensure all colleagues are given equal opportunities.

Inclusiveness & diversity champions 
> Our inclusiveness and diversity champions promote engagement and communication with all colleagues within 
the Inﬁneum group on various topics and play a role in identifying any barriers to or opportunities for progress. 
At Inﬁneum UK Ltd guest speakers who have talked about disability and gender biases are just one way in which 
these voluntary champions are helping colleagues to focus on being more inclusive. 

Gender neutral recruitment process
> We recognise that to address our gender pay gap, we need to ensure that our recruitment processes give equal 
opportunity to all genders. We have developed gender neutral recruitment practices, including diverse candidate 
shortlists, diverse assessor panels, and ensuring our job adverts have gender neutral language.

Flexible work patterns
> We believe that having a ﬂexible approach to work patterns and locations will mean we can attract and retain 

the best talent and it will help the organisation succeed. By exploring opportunities for ﬂexible working wherever 
possible, we hope to attract and retain all types of talent.

Mentoring programme
> At Inﬁneum UK Ltd we have a structured and detailed mentoring programme to help all colleagues to achieve 

their potential. This has helped many colleagues to progress their career at Inﬁneum and has supported the 
increased number of female executives over the last three years.

We recognise that addressing our gender pay gap will take time, however 
we are committed to continually looking for opportunities to create a more 
inclusive and diverse workforce across all levels.
I conﬁrm the gender pay gap data contained in this report for Inﬁneum UK Ltd is accurate 
and has been produced in accordance with the guidance on managing gender pay 
developed by the Arbitration and Conciliation Service (ACAS).

Rebecca Oldﬁeld 
Global HR Director

1

https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/bulletins/annualsurveyofhoursandearnings/2017
provisionaland2016revisedresults#gender-pay-differences

The government regulations for gender pay reporting impact Inﬁneum UK Ltd, and this analysis is for Inﬁneum UK Ltd only and does not include data from other Inﬁneum afﬁliates.

‘INFINEUM’, the interlocking Ripple Device, the corporate mark comprising INFINEUM and the interlocking Ripple Device and 润英联 are trademarks of Inﬁneum International Limited.  
© 2018 Inﬁneum International Limited. All rights reserved. 2018046 

