 

 

T Quality Ltd 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

T  Quality  is  a  national  Fish  and  Chip  Shop  Supplier  and  Fast  Food  Wholesaler  delivering 
Foodservice Solutions.  T. Quality delivers a variety of products for Fish and Chip Shops, Fast 
Food Outlets and the Pizza and Kebab trade through to the Wholesale Fish market. 

We are a fully integrated, multiple sited company, offering a national delivery service with 
sites in Bridlington, Leeds, Birmingham, Peterborough, Staplehurst, Swindon, Bristol, 
Swansea, Newton Abbot and Darlington.  

T. Quality is owned by SARIA Limited. 

Below is a graph showing our ‘gender pay gap’ across the UK, compared with the National 
average, according to data from the Office for National Statistics. 

T Quality Gender Pay Gap

T QUALITY LTD MEAN GAP

9.64%

T QUALITY LTD MEDIAN GAP

9.42%

NATIONAL GAP

18.10%

0%

5%

10%

15%

20%

 

These  figures  show  the  difference  between  the  average  hourly  pay  levels  of  all  women 
compared to all men, irrespective of their role or  grade in the organisation, expressed as a 
percentage of men’s average pay.  Although a gap exists within T Quality Ltd, it is lower than 
the National level. 

Our gap is predominantly due to a male-orientated workforce, making up over 80% of eligible 
employees.    This  percentage  is  high  due  to  the  nature  of  our  business  and  our  working 
patterns, which includes a high percentage of warehouse and driving staff. 

The ‘gender pay gap’ is an average figure taken from April 2017 pay data and is different to 
‘Equal pay’, which looks at the comparison between men and women’s pay in equal value 
roles / jobs.  

 

 

 

 

 

The graphs below illustrate T Quality Ltd’s gender distribution across hourly paid quartiles, 
each containing 62 / 63 employees: 

 

 
 

 

Lower Quartile

13%

87%

Lower Middle 

Quartile

48%

52%

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

 

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

0%

100%

17%

83%

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bonus payments do not form part of T Quality Ltd’s normal remuneration package, however 
discretionary bonuses can be paid to directors.  In the year preceding 5 April 2017 the bonus 
payments made have been calculated as follows to show the Mean, Median and percentage 
of male and female employees who received a bonus: 

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

 

100% 

 

2%  

 

100% 

0%  

of all MALE employees received a bonus 

of all FEMALE employees received a bonus 

 

 

  

