Travelers Management Limited  
Gender Pay Gap Report

01

02

Legislation Overview
Under new legislation that came into effect in April 2017, 
employers in the United Kingdom with more than 250 
employees are required to publish the difference between 
the mean and median hourly rates of pay and bonus 
pay paid to male and female employees, along with the 
proportion of male and female employees receiving a 
bonus payment and the proportion of male and female 
employees in each hourly pay quartile. 

600+

Travelers Management Limited, a UK 
entity, employs approximately 600 
employees in the United Kingdom. 
Its data is provided in this report.

03

“

Our compensation processes 
and controls, which include 
multiple levels of review 
and approval, are designed 
to help ensure that we 
compensate employees 
equitably and free of bias.

”

Appreciating Differences at Travelers

At Travelers, our greatest asset is our people. We recognise 
that building for the future requires that we maintain our 
talent advantage. In that regard, diversity and inclusion 
is a business imperative for us. Our efforts are aimed at 
attracting and retaining the best talent from the broadest 
possible pool of talent. Diverse experiences and viewpoints 
yield greater insights and better outcomes, raising the 
bar on individual and team performance. Our diverse and 
inclusive workforce today will be an important factor in our 
success tomorrow. 
Gender Pay Gap – 
Understanding the Numbers
Travelers is committed to a merit-based culture and its 
compensation programme is designed to drive that type of 
culture. Paying our employees equitably is the foundation 
of our merit-based culture. Our long-standing pay-for-
performance philosophy differentiates awards based on 
individual and company performance, regardless of gender 
or any other protected classification. Our compensation 
processes and controls, which include multiple levels of 
review and approval, are designed to help ensure that we 
compensate employees equitably and free of bias. 

The pay gap figures required by the legislation compare 
all female employees as a group to all male employees as 
a group. It is important to highlight that these required 
figures do not measure pay equity. As the required 
disclosures do not account for differences in pay by level, 
location, job function or job performance, these disclosures 
do not measure whether employees are receiving equal pay 
for equal work. 

When we take those relevant factors into account, our 
analysis shows that Travelers Management Limited pays its 
employees equitably, regardless of gender. The figures that 
we are required to disclose in this report reflect the fact 
that there are more men than women working in higher-
level positions, where hourly rates and bonuses are higher 
and bonuses are more common. They also reflect that we 
have a higher proportion of women than men who work 
part-time, where hourly rates tend to be lower and bonus 
awards are typically lower and less common.  

 

04

We are continually working to build upon our diverse and 
inclusive culture. Some of the steps we have taken include: 

Inclusive Leadership Performance Objective 
In recognition that all managers have a responsibility to 
assist in building a diverse company and an inclusive culture, 
in 2017 we added an Inclusive Leadership objective to all 
managers’ performance objectives. The Inclusive Leadership 
objective will purposefully foster a work environment where 
all employees are included and appreciated, and will help 
to attract, retain, engage and develop employees from all 
cultures and backgrounds. 

Appreciating Differences Diversity Training
We require all employees – at all levels and in all functions – 
to participate in a dynamic, interactive diversity education 
programme to understand how to appreciate and leverage 
differences for shared success.

Diversity Speaks
We host a series of events for all employees called Diversity 
Speaks. The events are held with the mission of cultivating 
a culture that embraces the power of difference, a culture 
where all individuality is honoured and diverse perspectives 
benefit all employees. The events feature a combination of 
employee and external guest speakers who share personal 
stories and provide different experiences and viewpoints. 

Diversity Networks
We created diversity networks, which are voluntary 
organisations led by a team of employees dedicated 
to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment. 
In particular, the Women’s Diversity Network aims to assist 
in fostering the retention, development and success of 
women in the company. 

We believe that paying our employees fairly and fostering 
an inclusive environment where all employees can develop 
and thrive is not only important to our future success but 
also integral to our corporate citizenship efforts. 

Constantly Improving Our Culture 

We value the diversity that exists among our workforce,  
our business partners, our customers and our communities. 
In order to increase female representation in higher-level 
positions in the United Kingdom, we have undertaken a 
number of initiatives. 

These include requiring a diverse slate of qualified 
candidates for all higher-level positions; requiring diverse 
interview panels for mid- to senior-level positions, which 
include a broad group of interviewers with varying 
experience and perspectives; and requiring training for 
employees involved in the hiring selection process that 
is focused on removing unconscious bias from the hiring 
process. We also participate in industry diversity and 
inclusion initiatives. For example, to further enhance our 
inclusive recruitment and employment practices, we were 
an early adopter of the Clear Assured inclusive talent 
management assessment tool, developed by a leading 
auditor of inclusivity best practices in the United Kingdom. 
We are also a member of Inclusion@Lloyd's and a signatory 
to the Lloyd's Diversity and Inclusion Charter. While more 
work remains to be done, we have already seen progress. 
Since 2012, the percentage of women in leadership 
positions at Travelers in the United Kingdom has increased 
50 percent. 

“

Since 2012, the percentage of 
women in leadership positions 
at Travelers in the United 
Kingdom has increased
50 percent. 

”

05

Required Gender Pay Gap Disclosure for Travelers Management Limited 
The required data for Travelers 
Management Limited is shown here.

The following charts show the proportion of men and women receiving 
a bonus payment (during the 12-month period prior to 5 April 2017).

Below are the mean and median gender pay gaps based 
on hourly rates of pay1 (as of 5 April 2017) and all types 
of bonus pay2 (during the 12-month period prior to 
5 April 2017). 

Men

(cid:31)(cid:30)(cid:29)(cid:28)%

Difference Between Men and Women

Women

(cid:14)(cid:13)(cid:12)(cid:11)%

Hourly pay

 30.8%

(Mean)

Bonus pay

 68.8%

(Mean)

 20.3%

(Median)

 28.1%

(Median)

(cid:26)(cid:31)(cid:29)(cid:28)%

(cid:9)(cid:8)(cid:12)(cid:7)%

Received bonus pay
Did not receive bonus pay

Received bonus pay
Did not receive bonus pay

The following charts show the proportion of men and women in each hourly pay quartile (as of 5 April 2017).
Upper quartile

Upper middle quartile

Lower middle quartile

Lower quartile

(cid:20)(cid:19)%

(cid:17)(cid:16)%

(cid:18)(cid:17)%

(cid:15)(cid:18)%

(cid:17)(cid:16)%

(cid:14)(cid:16)%

(cid:19)(cid:18)%

(cid:16)(cid:15)%

Women

Men

I confirm that the information in this report is accurate. 

1  Hourly rate of pay includes all types of ordinary pay, including base salary 
and all forms of allowance.
2  Bonus pay includes all types of pay that relate to performance and 
incentive, including annual cash bonuses, spot cash bonuses, vouchers 
and the gain on equity grants.

Alasdair Bishop 
Director, Travelers Management Limited

