Golden Charter Gender Pay Gap 

Golden Charter has, for the first time, reported 
its gender pay gap. The report provides a 
view of the overall mean and median gender 
pay and bonus gap based on figures for April 
2017 and bonus paid in the previous 12 
months.  The report illustrates a comparison 
between the average pay for men and women 
across the organisation. 

Golden Charter is committed to equal 
opportunities and treatment for our 
employees. We are proud of our ability to 
attract and retain a diverse and engaged 
 

Gender Pay and Bonus Pay Gap 

 

Mean1  

Median2 

 

 

Hourly pay gap 

24% 

33% 

Bonus pay gap 

64% 

53% 

 
 
1
 The mean (or average) is the sum of all hourly rates 
divided by the number of relevant employees. 
 
2
 The median number is the middle figure when the 
hourly rates of all colleagues are listed in ascending 
order. 
 
 

 

workforce.  We are now entering year two of a 
programme to review our people policies and 
practices as part of our wider people strategy, 
which includes taking steps to close our 
gender pay gap. 

I confirm the Gender Pay Gap reporting data 
and calculations in this report are accurate 
and have been independently audited. 

 

 

Suzanne Grahame 
Chief Executive Officer 

Proportion of Men and Women receiving a Bonus 

 

     Bonus Received 

   Bonus Not Received 

 

 

Proportion of Men and Women in each Pay Quartile 

 

Female 

Male 

 

An analysis of the results has established men and women doing the same roles are paid 
equally. It is predominantly the remuneration of specific roles which contribute to the gap, 
namely:  

•  A higher proportion of men in sales/business development roles which attract higher 

salaries, bonus awards and job need car allowances  

•  A higher proportion of men in IT roles attracting premium salaries  
•  All main board Director roles were held by men   
•  A higher proportion of women in administrative roles which tend to be lower paid 

At the snapshot date in April 2017, 55% of Golden Charter employees were women (Figure 
1); against an industry average of 41%i.  We have a strong female presence across our 

business.  

•  Across management levels, 48% of employees 

were women 

•  Within the Leadership Team, 38% of roles were 

occupied by women 

•  Sales, Business Development and IT roles 

accounted for approximately 37% of our 
workforce.  There are fewer women in these roles 
which tend to have higher remuneration packages  

•  Sales and business development: 41% 

women  
IT: 31% women 

• 

Figure 1

We are already taking steps to create the environment that will allow us to ensure equality for 

all: 

•  An equal pay audit is carried out as part of the annual salary review; 
• 

In the last year we have introduced a career and salary progression framework to 
make career paths and salaries more transparent; 

•  We run a development programme for our management population. This year 70% of 

the delegates are females; 

•  Our approach to performance development is being enhanced with the introduction of 

a talent management and succession planning framework; and 

•  Work is underway to review our benefits package with particular emphasis on family 
friendly policies as we look to ensure Golden Charter is an attractive employer to all. 

 

Additionally, as a result of this review, we will add two further actions to our people strategy: 

•  A review of our attraction methods and job design in areas where men and women 

are underrepresented to establish if there are barriers to those groups applying, and 
being selected, for these positions; and 

•  We will enhance our existing oversight of the performance management framework to 
ensure there is no gender bias in performance ratings and resulting bonus outcomes. 

                                                           
i

 ONS November 2017 

 

