PJ CAREY (CONTRACTORS) LTD 
GENDER PAY REPORT 2017

PJ Carey (Contractors) Ltd is committed to being a diverse and inclusive employer and our aim is to offer 
all our colleagues the opportunity to develop their careers. We know that for our business to succeed our 
colleagues must be from a diverse range of backgrounds and be part of an inclusive workplace culture.

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap shows the percentage difference between average hourly earnings for all men and all women across 
an organisation, regardless of their role.
The gender pay gap is different to equal pay, which requires men and women doing the same job to be paid the same.
Here is how PJ Carey (Contractors) Ltd measures against the set criteria.

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

25.2%

22.1%

Mean Bonus Gap Median Bonus Gap

3.8%

12.9%

% of Males and Females

Receiving a Bonus Payment
Male
Female
69.6%
68.7%

The % of Males and Females in each Quartile Band

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

34.0%

15.4%

14.5%

7.1%

66.0%

84.6%

85.5%

92.9%

ADDRESSING THE GAP
PJ Carey (Contractors) Ltd is committed to being an employer that gives equal opportunities to all employees irrespective 
of gender, and we aim to ensure that all employees are supported to reach their full potential.
Our results are in-line with our industry peers and we recognise there is room for improvement.
We need to attract a higher proportion of female employees at all levels, retain women in the business and provide 
opportunities for their professional and career development.
Detailed below are some of the ways we are addressing this gap.

RECRUITMENT

RETENTION

DEVELOPMENT

Attracting more women into the 
construction industry is key to 
closing the gender gap.
•  We are setting up links with 
local schools directly and via 
the Construction Youth Trust to 
encourage school leavers to join 
our industry.  We will continue 
to provide mentoring and work 
experience opportunities across 
our business.

Retaining women in the 
construction industry is another 
focus area, crucial to improving the 
gap.
•  We have enhanced our maternity 
leave and paternity leave policies 
for all parents.

Supporting our female colleagues 
in their professional development 
will help to ensure women are 
represented at all levels of the 
business.
•  We are developing our talent and 
succession planning programmes 
which will assist our female 
colleagues to advance in to senior 
roles.

The information published on the current gender pay gap figures for PJ Carey (Contractors) Ltd is accurate and correct.

Steve Regan,
Chief Executive Officer – PJ Carey (Contractors) Ltd

