Gender Pay Gap  
Report 2018

www.glos.ac.uk

Introduction

The University of Gloucestershire is committed to advancing equality and valuing diversity in 
all of its practices. We are developing a culture that actively respects and values differences,  
recognising that staff and students from different backgrounds, cultures and experiences 
bring valuable insight to the university; that actively combats prejudice, discrimination and 
harassment by raising awareness and challenging attitudes. We continue to create fair and 
open policies and processes that encourage and facilitate staff and students to develop and 
progress, achieving their true potential. 

Our 2017 Staff Survey results were positive: 
•  89% agree the university is a good place to work
•  87% feel proud to work for the university 
•  91% say they are interested in the university and it is not just a job to them.

Our Strategic Plan for 2017-2022 states: 
 
 
 
 
 

“The university is a people-based organisation. Achievement of all our goals depends on  
the skills, professionalism and engagement of our staff. The highest priority amongst our  
enablers is therefore to recruit, retain and motivate excellent staff, and to create a working  
environment in which all staff can achieve their full potential and be part of the  
transformational purpose of the university.”   

Given our Staff Survey results, our successes to date and the focus in our Strategic Plan, our 
current gender pay gap is disappointing. We understand that the data contained within this 
paper needs addressing. This disparity is unacceptable and we are keen to play our role in 
achieving real gender equality.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2018  |  www.glos.ac.uk  |  1

Contextual Information

Our Data1

We welcome the opportunity to report on our gender pay gap. Whilst it is the first time that we 
have reported specifically on gender pay, we have been undertaking equal pay reviews since 2011.

At this point it is useful to explain the difference between equal pay and a gender pay gap. Equal 
pay refers to the differences in pay between men and women who carry out like work – work that 
is broadly similar: work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme, or work found  
to be of equal value in terms of effort, skill or decision making. A gender pay gap shows the  
difference in average pay between men and women, regardless of grade.

Our 2016 Equal Pay Review showed some very positive news, revealing a mean gender gap of 
only 1.97% amongst our academic staff. Whilst there is no legal definition of what constitutes a 
pay gap, it is generally accepted that a gap of between 3% - 4.9% warrants further investigation, 
whereas 5% and above is regarded as significant.

In relation to our professional services staff, the review identified a larger mean gender pay gap of 
8.31%. This gap occurred because of a disproportionate number of women employed in the lower 
grades. This picture is consistent with the data in our Gender Pay Gap Report, and is reflective of 
the trend in the Higher Education sector.

Another contributory factor was the relatively long length of service amongst our workforce. 
Whilst this has a number of benefits, it can become a barrier to overcoming gender related  
occupational segregation. 

Our Equal Pay Review and our Gender Pay Gap Report also indicated an under-representation of  
women in senior roles, which increased at Executive level. Due to the relatively small numbers  
of employees at this level, the ratios are sensitive to any changes.

We undertook further analysis of our quartiles gender pay gap data to better understand our 
data. The only gap highlighted by this analysis was in the upper middle quartile.

Our gender pay data is based on calculations for our workforce as a whole. For the purpose  
of the calculations, the university’s workforce was 1,280 with a gender profile which is 56% 
female and 44% male.

The mean and median gender pay gap is based on an hourly rate of pay calculated in  
accordance with the regulations*.

£20.85

  £17.60 
 
Mean gender pay gap 15.58%

 

£20.37

  £16.59 
 
Median gender pay gap is 18.54%

 

The mean and median bonus gender pay gap and the proportion of men and women  
receiving a bonus payment:

•  mean bonus gender pay gap is 0.97%
•  median bonus gender pay gap is 2.98
•  proportion of men receiving a bonus is 0.91%
•  proportion of women receiving a bonus is 0.41%.

2   |  Gender Pay Gap Report 2018  |  www.glos.ac.uk

www.glos.ac.uk  |  Gender Pay Gap Report 2018  |  3

1 The workforce profile is based on a snapshot of relevant, full pay employees as at March 2017. The prescriptive nature of the regulations* 
means that the hourly rates of pay are approximate to our own pay scales. 
* Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017

Pay Band Quartiles

Our Action Plan

Here we show the proportion of men and women in each quartile pay band.

Each quartile is calculated by dividing the workforce into four equal parts. For us this  
equates to 320 employees per quartile. To gain a better understanding of our gender pay  
gap, we undertook further analysis of each quartile. This identified a gap within the upper  
middle quartile. 

PERCENTAGE OF MEN AND WOMEN IN EACH QUARTILE

42.32%
women

57.68%  

men

TOP  
QUARTILE

MEAN GAP IS 0.19%

50.31%
women

49.69% 

men

UPPER  
MIDDLE 
QUARTILE

MEAN GAP IS 3.61%

40.63% 

men

59.38% 
women

LOWER
MIDDLE 
QUARTILE

MEAN GAP IS 1.92%

23.75% 

men

76.25% 
women

LOWER 
QUARTILE

MEAN GAP IS -0.37%

We recognise that sustained and purposeful change will take time, and the impact of our  
short term measures will only be effective in the longer term. Our data indicates that our  
biggest challenge lies in the under-representation of women at senior grades, and occupational 
segregation at the lower grades. With this in mind, our primary actions will focus on  
recruitment and selection.

We will:

Take steps to ensure that our recruitment and selection processes are 
without bias. This includes using gender neutral language in our job 
descriptions, using positive action statements in our job adverts, and 
placing our adverts in a diverse range of communication channels. 
Executive have already agreed to implement the positive action  
provision, Section 159 of the Equality Act 2010.

Continue to monitor starting salaries to ensure fairness and  
consistency, and challenge inappropriate decisions. The monitoring 
information will be included in our annual, published People Report.

Mandate all recruiting managers to complete the e-learning  
recruitment module and one day Interviewers Skills training.

Continue our work on developing an Academic Career Framework  
during 2017/18 and 2018/19. This will provide a structure and  
transparency for academic staff in understanding the roles and  
opportunities which are available, and how they can achieve  
promotion. This will also help managers understand how individuals  
are considered for promotion in a structured and consistent way,  
based on individual skills and expertise.   

Other actions that we will continue to develop and implement are:

Continue to offer Aurora, the Leadership Foundation’s women-only 
leadership development programme. Since 2013, we have supported  
22 female members of staff to participate. To assist their ongoing 
career development, we held an event to help them to develop their 
leadership ambitions. 

Actively support and encourage women to apply for Reader  
and Professor.

Undertake an Equal Pay Review every two years. Report the findings 
to University’s Executive Committee and Council.

Continue to update related HR policies in collaboration with the  
trade unions.

4   |  Gender Pay Gap Report 2018  |  www.glos.ac.uk

www.glos.ac.uk  |  Gender Pay Gap Report 2018  |  5

www.glos.ac.uk

9141 01/18

