UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 

 
 

 

Median 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
McBride plc 
McBride  plc  is  Europe’s  leading  supplier  of  Private  Label  Household  and  Personal  Care 
products.  Operating across 12 countries, with 17 manufacturing facilities producing over 1.1 
billion  units  a  year,  we  develop  and  manufacture  products  for  the  majority  of  retailers  and 
major brand owners throughout the UK, Europe and Asia. 
 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap 
The Gender Pay Gap is the difference between men and women’s average pay across our 
UK organisation. 
 
 
Gender Pay Gap is NOT Equal Pay 
Gender Pay measures the difference in the average hourly pay of men and women.  It can be 
used to assess levels of equality in the workplace and a measure of seniority or progression 
but it is not an equal pay issue.  Equal pay is about a man and a woman receiving equal pay 
for the same or similar job. 
 
 
McBride Results in the UK 
The UK government has introduced an annual requirement for UK companies with more than 
250 employees to report the gender pay gap; we are reporting our gender pay gap for the first 
time.  This data is calculated as at 5th April 2017, the snapshot date. 
 
The regulations measure the gap in two ways: 
 
Mean pay gap – the difference between the average hourly rate of pay for women and the 
average hourly rate of pay for men. 
 
Median  pay  gap  –  the  difference  between  the  midpoint  hourly  rate  of  pay  for  women 
compared to the midpoint hourly rate of pay for men. 
 
 
Gender Pay Gap 
Mean   
 
7.56%   
lower than men  
 
 
According to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) the UK’s current mean gender pay gap is 
18.4%, with the current UK median figure at 17.4%.  We are pleased to report that both in 
terms  of mean  and median  averages  our results  are favourable  to this.   However,  we  also 

Gender Bonus Gap 
Mean   

4%  
higher than men 

10.62% 
lower than men  

 

15.24% 
lower than men  

 

 
 
Median 

 
 

 
 

 

 

UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acknowledge there is more work to do and our approach to recruitment and succession will 
help to reduce this gap even further. 
 
Proportion of men and women who received a bonus 
 

91.63%

71.34%

Men

Women

 

Proportion of men and women in each quartile 
Traditionally the manufacturing industry is male dominated and this is also true of McBride.  At 
the snapshot date we had 1,083 paid relevant employees, of which 776 (71.7%) were male 
and 307 (28.3%) were female. 
 
We have split our relevant paid employees into four equal sized groups based on their average 
total hourly rate of pay, showing the percentage of men and women in each quartile. 

Upper

Upper Middle

Women 

26%

Men  
74%

Lower Middle

Women

30%

Men
70%

 

 

Women

21%

Men
79%

Lower

Women

37%

Men
63%

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our employment policies 

UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 

McBride recognises the importance of developing internal talent across its workforce.  It is 
our policy to ensure equal opportunity for all employees and we have an equal opportunities 
and diversity policy in place which is monitored by the HR function.  It is a key objective to 
ensure that successful candidates for appointment and promotion are selected taking 
account of individual ability, skills and competencies without regard to gender. 

McBride is committed to compensating employees in a manner that is fair and consistent.  We 
have recently implemented Willis Towers Watson job evaluation and grading structure across 
our UK organisation.  

There is a separate grading system in place in our factories which ensures consistency of pay 
and remuneration across each of those grades. 

I confirm that all of the information and data reported are accurate and meet the requirements 
of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
 
 
Rik De Vos 
Chief Executive Officer 

