Contact us get in touch Contact Information and Map Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form July Onion Harvest begins Thank you! Your submission has been received! Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form we know our onions Home Know your onions Jobs About News Contact we know our onions Home Know your onions Jobs About News Contact Allium Experts A forward thinking, family run business Growing, Packing and processing We manage the supply chain from field to consumer Onion, Shallot & Garlic Specialists focused on delivering the finest quality Welcome to the Oldershaw Group Onion, Shallot and Garlic Specialists Grower farming in Lincs and Norfolk Packer we know our onions Importer Wholesale specialists Processor At the cutting edge Learn more about us... Discover more Our point of difference Our point of difference is that we specialise in alliums. We are able to manage the supply chain from the field right through to your plate, be that in the form of whole bulb onions, garlic and shallots from the supermarket, prepared onions or garlic as part of a ready meal or salad, or eaten in a meal in a restaurant. We offer our growers whole crop utilisation through our varied range of products and customers. Serving the UK with best quality British Onions. CONTACT US Who are we? We are onion, shallot and garlic specialists, managing the supply chain for our growers through to our customers. From growing to packing, importing to processing, we never compromise on the quality of the products we produce or the service we deliver. We supply a number of select British retailers, wholesalers and food manufacturers with whole and prepared onions, shallots and garlic. All of which are grown on our own farm , by one of our carefully selected British growers, or procured via our importing business. Contact us find out more 100k Annual tonnage 12k Tonnes of onions grown 38 Years experience 87 individual SKU's Our Business and Brands Grower packer Processor wholesale onions importer Prepared ingredients Leading the industry Near Infra Red Onion Grading Our Near Infra red grading line not only optically sorts onions based on size and weight, but also identifies both external and internal rots among numerous other quality defects.  The grader, the first in the UK, uses non evasive, photo optic and 3D laser scanning techniques to automatically sort onions on both external and internal quality, something which has previously not been possible. find out more... Take a look around Views : Moulton, Lincolnshire by Moulton Bulb Co. Ltd This is what we do... From field to fork The UK's most advanced onion grader Near Infra Red Technology lets us look inside an onion Freshly prepared onions, shallots and garlic For retail, wholesale or food service Old school Dance party for students 29/10/2015 550 $33 our accreditations Food Safety Organic Certification Ethical Trading Caring for the environment Food Traceability Waitrose Farm Risk Assessment Tackling Modern Slavery Our commitment to food safety Both our packing and processing factories are audited to the BRC standard and both continue to deliver outstanding results. A+ grade levels have been achieved every year in recent history during unannounced audits. Moulton Bulb Co. Ltd. Download Certificate Goldwood Moulton Download Certificate Organic Production Soil Association standards are among the most comprehensive for organic production and processing in the world. We are accredited to pack and process organic onions, shallots and garlic. Download Certificate Our Ethical Trading Commitment The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a membership organisation for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of their supply chains. Moulton Bulb Co. is part of this scheme Linking Environment and Farming Linking Environment and Farming promotes environmentally responsibly farming. Our own farms has this accreditation along with the vast majority of our UK growers, as well as many of our overseas growers, too Download Certificate Assured Food Standards Red Tractor was established in 2000 and has grown to become the UK’s leading farm and quality food assurance scheme. Red Tractor was launched by the food industry to promote clearer labeling and ensure food originates from a trustworthy source. All of our UK produce is grown to this standard. Download Certificate Farming Standards The Waitrose Farm Assessment is an initiative started in 2011 to survey the Waitrose fresh produce farms. Working with their suppliers, they are seeking to understand how continuous improvement in terms of sustainability is being implemented and the key challenges, with a view to providing accurate data for research. Stronger Together We are proud to be a Stronger Together business partner. Business partners are organisations that have uploaded evidence to publicly demonstrate their commitment to tackling hidden labour exploitation Preventing Labour Exploitation policy Our Values Our business is built on a philosophy of hard work, honesty, trust and family values. Here's what we think we're best at... Key Strengths CONSISTENTLY GREAT QUALITY With our near infra-red grading technology we can offer near rot free onions. Something no one else in the UK can. LARGE CAPACITY Despite serving around 25% of the UK retail volume we are only operating at  50% capacity. INNOVATION We have been responsible for bringing many of the product and packaging innovations to market. LOWEST COST OPERATORS With the most efficient onion grader and high capacity packing lines we keep costs to a minimum. TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE Our technical team are second to none and work tirelessly to keep us, our customers and the end consumer legal and safe. WE PLANT, NURTURE AND HARVEST OUR OWN PRODUCE, THEN STORE, PACK AND PROCESS IT TO ENSURE FULL CoNTROL AND TRACEABILIITY THROUGHOUT If you'd like to find out more about us, contact us for more information Contact us Call us on: 01406 370380 Our head office address is: Long Lane, Moulton, Spalding, Lincolnshire, PE12 6PP You can always reach us at: info@oldershawgroup.co.uk Copyright © 2018 Oldershaw Group Privacy Policy Cookies Policy Terms & Conditions Gender Pay Gap Website by Unyun  