Pell Frischmann
Gender Pay Report

Gender balance is a longstanding challenge in engineering, and one that must be overcome with urgency. So 
we are pleased to be an early adopter of the WISE Ten Steps to support women in STEM careers, and we are 
very proud to have been identiﬁed by NCE100 as an Equality Champion in 2017.  This report sets out a 
critical aspect: pay – and where we are as a business.

Investing in Women Engineers
Only 15.1% of engineering students  - and 11% of the UK’s engineering workforce1 - is female. So we are 
pleased to report a mark of ongoing progress that 30% of Pell Frischmann graduates are now female and we 
continue to provide internships and work experience to young women yet to choose their careers.

We are also pleased to report that Pell Frischmann achieves equal pay  - the fundamental principle that men 
and women in the same role should be paid the same money. For example, pay variance among our 
graduates is just 2%2 - with female graduates earning on average two percent more than male graduates. 
1  Women’s Engineering Society ﬁgures        2  Margins of error of up to 3% reﬂect small diﬀerences in experience within employment bands

15%

30%

Engineering

Average

85% 

Pell Frischmann

Graduates

70%

The Pay Gap 

Along with Equal Pay, we have also conducted a 
study of Pell Frischmann’s Gender Pay Gap. This 
doesn’t compare like-for-like job roles. Instead it 
takes the average hourly rate of pay of all men and 
women in all jobs across the business.  

This study reveals that Pell Frischmann has a Median 
Gender Pay Gap of 40.4%, meaning that diﬀerence 
between the median hourly wage of men at Pell 
Frischmann, and the median wage of women, is 40.4%. 

66%

Difference between men and women

(whole workforce) in %

Hourly Pay

Mean
45.8

Including Bonus

62.5

Median

40.4

78.2

8.4% of male, and 4.9% of female staﬀ have a bonus as part of their packages

10.7%

18.2%

34%

Quartile

1

89.3%

Quartile

2

81.8% 

Quartile
Quartile

3
3

66%

68.9%

Quartile

4

31.1% 

What does this tell us? 

Pell Frischmann is proving more successful than most at attracting and retaining female engineers – 
including graduates. This reﬂects our longstanding commitment both to equal pay, and to fostering a culture 
of respect across the full diversity of our workforce. 

However, the Gender Pay Gap suggests that relatively more of the women in our business are in job roles 
that hold lower salaries. This is in part a result of our recent success in raising the number of female 
graduates joining us, which raises the proportion of women at the start of the career/earnings ladder. There 
is also an impact on the data relating to family-related leaves of absence such as maternity, paternity and 
parental leave, and we must reinforce a gender-blind culture towards the uptake of these beneﬁts. 

Plan of Action! 

1

Build on success 

a. Attracting graduates and other women into the business must continue, particularly at the more
    senior level.
b. Equal Pay must be maintained and continuously monitored. 

2

Ongoing support

a. Our rising intake of female graduates must be supported into senior roles over time.  
b. Continue to develop and progress female employees into senior positions through a formal           
  succession planning process. 
c. Build on the diversity reﬂected at the most senior level of the business, with senior female executives  
  supporting the development process as role models for all levels.

3

Parental Leave 

a. Examine why parental leave – which can impact hourly pay for its duration – is disproportionately
    taken by women in our business.
b. Demonstrate that this will never hinder a return to work or career progression at Pell Frischmann. 
c. Ensure our incentives and culture surrounding parental leave reinforce a gender-blind approach to
    household choices.

This data reported is accurate

Tushar Prabhu
Tushar Prabhu

Chief Executive Oﬃcer
Chief Executive Oﬃcer

28 March 2018

