oceaneering.com

Oceaneering International 
Services Limited
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Connecting What’s Needed with What’s Next™Table of Contents
1. 

Introduction ......................................................................3

2.  Gender Pay Calculations ..................................................4

3.  Closing Remarks ..............................................................6

oceaneering.com

1. 

Introduction
Oceaneering is a global provider of engineered services and products, primarily to 
the offshore oil and gas industry, with a focus on deepwater applications. Through 
the use of its applied technology expertise, Oceaneering also serves the defence, 
entertainment and aerospace industries. Oceaneering’s business offerings 
include remotely operated vehicles, built-to-order specialty subsea products, 
deepwater intervention and manned diving services, non-destructive testing and 
inspection, and engineering and project management. 

The Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations cover UK companies with 250 or more 
employees as of 5 April 2017. Those organisations are required to publicly report 
the following gender pay gap metrics on the government-sponsored website, with 
the aim of eliminating the gender pay gap:

Mean Gender Pay Gap

Median Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Gap

Difference between 

average hourly earnings 
of males and females

Difference between 

median hourly earnings

Mean Gender  
Bonus Gap

Median Gender  

Bonus Gap

Difference between 

average bonus earnings

Difference between 

median bonus earnings

Proportion of male 

and female employees 
receiving bonus within 
the 12 month period

Pay Quartiles

Insight into career paths

In the Oceaneering group, Oceaneering International Services Limited (“OISL”) is 
required to publish its gender pay gap metrics.  Pay gap calculations below are 
based on the OISL workforce as of 5 April 2017.

We recognise that our people are our greatest asset, and strive to ensure that our 
workforce is diverse and inclusive. We aim to attract, develop and retain a world-
class workforce and are committed to building an organisation that provides 
opportunities to all. 

Our data suggest areas where we can do more to support gender equality. By 
analysing the data, we can build on and improve policies and programs that are 
already in place. 

Women currently represent 16% of our overall workforce, and occupy 17% of 
our managerial roles. In the last three years, we have hired 174 employees, of 
whom 13% were women. In 2017, 21% of employee promotions were women, 
with 35% of those being promoted into management positions. Of the women 
in this population, 40% were promoted into management positions for the first 
time. To reduce our pay gap, we will continue to provide access to training and 
development opportunities. 

Our company policies encourage and support flexible working within the 
organisation. Our HR team actively supports our diversity message by influencing 
and challenging hiring managers to promote an open, fair and inclusive workplace 
culture. 

2.  Gender Pay Calculations

As of 5 April 2017, our gender pay gap at the mean was 17.69% favouring men. 
Our gender pay gap at the median was 22.19% favouring men.

Mean Hourly Pay Differences
£21.76
£17.91
17.69%

Male Hourly Rate
Female Hourly Rate
Pay Gap

Median Hourly Pay Differences
£19.25
£14.98
22.19%

Male Hourly Rate
Female Hourly Rate
Pay Gap

These figures are above the national mean (17.4%) and median (18.4%) 
as reported by the Office of National Statistics, and reflect that men are 
overrepresented within organisations like Oceaneering that primarily operate 
in the oil and gas industry. We are aware that we lack significant female 
representation in senior management positions, in higher-paid STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Maths) roles, and in our offshore workforce. 

Performance-related bonuses are awarded and paid annually, and are calculated 
based on individual, group and company performance. All of our permanent 
employees at eligible job levels, irrespective of age, gender or ethnicity, are 
eligible for participation in our annual cash bonus programs. As of 5 April 2017, 
there was no significant bonus gap at the mean, as reflected in the following table. 
Our bonus gap at the median was 9.42% favouring women.  A higher proportion 
of men received a bonus, which is due in part to the composition of our offshore 
workforce.

oceaneering.com

Mean Bonus Differences

Mean 
Bonus 

Number 
Receiving 
a Bonus

% Bonus 
Distribution

Male
Female
Bonus Gap

£3,080.90
£3,070.02

0.35%

416
22

51.5%
25.4%

Male
Female
Bonus Gap

Median Bonus Differences

Number 
Receiving 
a Bonus

% Bonus 
Distribution

416
22

51.5%
25.4%

Median 
Bonus 

£1,120.86
£1,226.48
-9.42%

Our gender distribution by quartiles shows that women are significantly 
underrepresented across the four quartiles: 

Gender Distribution by Pay Quartiles

82.70%

74.60%

87.40%

91.50%

25.40%

17.30%

12.60%

8.50%

A(Q1)

B(Q2)

C(Q3)

D(Q4)

Female Male

Our hiring philosophy is to secure the best talent available for roles across the 
organisation, and to ensure that all employees are treated fairly and consistently. 
We focus our recruitment activities on channels that seek to deliver a diverse 
range of qualified candidates.  As part of this effort, we partner with local 
schools promoting STEM subjects. We also offer career advice to make the oil 
industry more accessible and to encourage more women to view us as a potential 

8
1
0
2
.
0
3
.
3
0

employer. We recognise that our strategy needs to ensure that we attract more 
women and other diverse candidates into our organisation. 

We aim to ensure women are better supported through our Oceaneering Women’s 
Network, which was established in 2017. The group consists of approximately 
70 active members and seeks to champion women and their professional 
development across our organisation. As part of our global organisational 
Leadership Review, we proactively identify talent, leadership and diversity gaps.  
Our senior leaders are committed to addressing and closing these gaps. 

3.  Closing Remarks

This is our first year reporting gender pay gap. We continue to analyse the data 
to understand the reasons for gender pay differences and identify ways to ensure 
that we make real, sustained progress to reduce our gender pay gap and achieve a 
diverse workforce.

Steven Cowie 
Vice President and UK Country Manager 
Director, Oceaneering International Services Limited

© 2018 Oceaneering International, Inc. All rights reserved.

oceaneering.com

