Sixt UK Gender Pay Reporting - 2017 

I am very pleased to have the opportunity to look at our practises with regards to equal opportunities. As a family run business we will continue to strive to ensure that 
both Men and Woman can have an enjoyable employment experience, through maintaining a rewarding and engaging career pathway regardless of gender. 

Rob Jones - Head of People Management UK 

 

 

U K   G E N D E R   P A Y  G A P   R E P O R T I N G   - 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7  
 

 

Our  2017  UK  Gender  Pay  Gap 
Report 
 
Foreword  
We  welcome  the  introduction  of  gender 
pay gap reporting and  the goal of what it 
sets  out  to  achieve.  As  a  business  this 
gives us an opportunity to review how and 
where  we 
for 
offer 
advancement  and 
to  ensure  we  are 
inclusive across the whole of Sixt UK.  

opportunities 

We  hope  through  regular  reporting  our 
results will demonstrate our commitment to 
equal opportunities and the measures we 
put in place to support this vision. 

that  are  designed 

What is the gender pay gap? 
The  gender  pay  gap  is  a  number  of  average 
calculations 
the 
difference between the average earnings of men and 
woman across the whole of an organisation. They are 
expressed  as  numbers  that  show  the  percentage  of 
male earnings, e.g. men earn 5% more than women. 

to  measure 

that  men  and  women 

 
Is this the same as equal pay? 
Equal  pay  is  covered  by  the  Equality  Act  2010,  and 
states 
jobs  should  be 
compensated equally for work of an equal value. The 
gender  pay  gap  information  instead  will  show  the 
distribution  of  male  and  females  throughout  our  pay 
hierarchy  and  will  help  to  identify  where  there  are 
opportunities  for  Sixt  to  amend  working  practises  to 
ensure inclusivity. 

 
About Sixt UK 
At  Sixt  UK  we  are  passionate  about  targets  and 
ensuring our employees feel that they make a positive 
contribution to our end goal of reaching our business 
targets. We believe everyone has a role to play in the 
businesses success story and we have measures in 
place to ensure that our people are rewarded fairly for 
the contribution they provide. 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Why has this been introduced? 

Gender pay reporting has been introduced to provide 
transparency  of  pay  as  part  of  the  government’s 
initiative to ensure women are represented equally in 
the workplace.  

What year do the figures relate to? 

These  figures  relate  to  the  reporting  year  of  2016- 
2017. The pay figures are taken from a snapshot date 
of  April  5th  2017,  and  the  bonus  figures  relate  to 
employees who were continually employed from April 
2016- April 2017. 

FEMALES – 
25.4%

 

MALES – 74.6% 

The split of gender across Sixt UK for our reporting year 2016-
2017

 MALES – 74.6% U K   G E N D E R   P A Y  G A P   R E P O R T I N G   - 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7  
 
What is our Gender pay gap? 
We have worked hard to give internal employees 
and  external  candidates 
to 
progress  into  senior  roles.  We  are  proud  that 
throughout our senior operations and leadership 
team  we  currently  have  equal  proportions  of 
males  and  females,  and  we  look  forward  to 
reporting on this in the future.  

the  opportunity 

Rob Jones- Head of People Management 

Key Data 
Information presented below relates to Sixt Rent a car UK, for years 2016-2017.  

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap 

 

 

 

 

Mean and Median Bonus Gap  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean 

 

 

 

Median 

1.3%       -5.1% 

 

 

 

 

 

                

  -26.3%     -23.7% 

 

Methodology 
As we employ over 250 people we are required to 
submit our gender pay gap calculations in line with 
UK legislation.  

There are six main calculations which aim to show 
the distribution of males and females throughout the 
organisations pay and bonus hierarchy in order to 
identify any disparity. 

The gender pay calculations are completed on 
employees who received their full pay during the pay 
period of April 2017. 

The gender bonus calculations are completed on all 
employees who received a bonus during the bonus 
period of April 2016- April 2017.  

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Males- 48.8% 

Females – 75.3% 

Proportion of males and females by pay quartile (%) 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Males  

 

          Lower Quartile                       Lower mid Quartile 

              Upper mid quartile 

 

 

     Females  

Top quartile 

13.5 

18.5 

41 

25 

86.5 

81.5 

59 

75 

U K   G E N D E R   P A Y  G A P   R E P O R T I N G   - 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7  
 
What do our figures mean? 
Pay Figures 
 

 

 

1.3% 
Mean Pay Gap 
Our mean pay gap percentage tells us that we have 
provided  pay  and  progression  opportunities  that  are 
broadly  similar  across  the  internal  levels  of  our 
organisation.  

It tells us that we have provided similar hourly rates for 
both male and females across the organisation.  

This means that if the organisation is made up of four 
males to every one female, then for every four males 
we  have  getting  paid  £10  an  hour,  we  have  one 
female. This is something we are really proud of, and 
something we believe makes us stand out from other 
industries. 
 

 

 

 

-5.1% 
Median Pay Gap 
Our median pay gap percentage demonstrates where 
we are in terms of the middle of the organisations pay 
scales. This shows us the middle value, which helps 
us  to  disregard  any  big  outliers  that  might  skew  our 
figures. 

We can see from this calculation that females earn a 
higher  hourly  rate  than  males.  Whilst  we  are  really 

encouraged to see this, we also wanted to explain why 
this might be. 

through the hierarchy of our organisation, and feel this 
is a really unique finding from within our industry.  

for  all 

throughout 

We stay committed to ensuring we are providing equal 
opportunities 
the  workforce, 
regardless  of  gender  or  any  other  protected 
characteristic and will make sure all activities relating 
to pay and progression continue to be dealt with in an 
objective and consistent manor.  

 

 

 

 

As we have a smaller amount of females than males 
in  our  workforce,  we  then  see  that  each  females 
individual  pay  can  make  a  bigger  contribution  to  the 
percentage figures than the males. Therefore, the way 
that we are required to report on this doesn’t take the 
ratio of males to females into account. 

rewarding  workplace  opportunities 

Nonetheless, we find it really encouraging to know we 
provide 
for 
employees of both genders, and feel this commitment 
really makes us stand out as a good employer.   

 

 
Proportion of  Males  and  Females in  each 
Pay Quartile 

This  calculation  demonstrates  how  each  gender  is 
spread across our workforce in respect to pay. Pay in 
this respect is in relation to an hourly rate of pay, which 
could  be  different  to  the  actual  hourly  rate  of  pay 
received as we are required by government to use a 
standardised  calculation  in  order  to  determine  the 
hourly rate of pay.  

We find the results really encouraging as we feel they 
represent the gender demographic and overall make 
up of our workforce.   

We  are  particularly  excited 
results 
demonstrate  how  we  are  able  to  progress  females 

that 

the 

U K   G E N D E R   P A Y  G A P   R E P O R T I N G   - 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7  
 
 
Bonus Figures 
 

Mean Bonus Gap  
 

-26.3% 

Our mean bonus gap tells us that as an average 
females receive a higher bonus payment than 
males. 

The car industry, and in particular Sixt, are a 
target driven, results orientated business, and we 
know this is one of the reasons why our 
employees enjoy working with us. Bonuses at 
Sixt rely heavily on employees individual 
attainment goals, and are not capped. We 
recruit, retain and develop people that enjoy this 
entrepreneurial aspect and feel empowered by it. 

We operate a number of bonus schemes that are 
regulated by ensuring employees working at the 
same level are on the same bonus scheme. 

Therefore, we feel the reason why our bonus 
disparity is favoured towards females is because 
of a number of exceedingly high performers that 
we reward fairly and consistently in line with the 
scheme rules. 

We have made a commitment to ensure we 
provide equal bonus opportunities for all and 
have created an employee ‘Guru’ scheme to try 
and bridge the gap between bonus pay-outs. We 
want to ensure all of our employees have had 
the support required in order to achieve the 
highest bonus pay-outs. 

 

Median Bonus Gap 
 

-23.7% 

Our median bonus gap gives us a middle 
average which aims to refocus so any significant 
outliers do not contribute to the overall figure.  

The majority of the bonus schemes that apply to 
this calculation are commission based, with a 
structured set of principles that govern the 
scheme. 

 
Proportion of males and females 
receiving a bonus payment 
 

This calculation shows us out of our whole 
workforce during the reporting period of April 
2016-2017, how many employees of each 
gender received a bonus.  

We know from the calculation output, that a 
higher percentage of females received a bonus 
than males. 

One of the reasons for this is because a role that 
is predominantly occupied by males in our 
workforce is not rewarded with a bonus scheme.  

We are committed to reviewing this regularly 
along with the business needs and where able 
are always looking to progress these individuals 
into roles that will attract a bonus scheme. We 
are also committed to ensuring we review the 
salary of these individuals regularly to ensure we 
are competitive in the market and rewarding 
fairly.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

U K   G E N D E R   P A Y  G A P   R E P O R T I N G   - 2 0 1 6 / 2 0 1 7  
 
Our commitment to closing a gap 
and providing equal opportunities 
to all 
 

 

We know that our results are encouraging and 
broadly represent the car rental industry as we look 
to review our competitors reporting as well. 

However, there is more that can be done to support 
equal opportunities throughout the whole workforce 
and we want to commit to our employees, customers 
and stakeholders in order to ensure we do this. 

 

 

  

Since the reporting period of 2016-2017 we have 
already made a number of positive changes to 
ensure that we are an inclusive organisation.  

 

 

What have we already done? 
Since the year we are reporting on, we have 
addressed some areas which we believe will ensure 
an inclusive workplace for all genders; 

What will we be doing next? 
These are all parts of our People strategy, and areas 
we want to focus on over the next few reporting 
years; 

-  Reviewed how we offer progression 

opportunities, and actively promoted various 
options to progression, so as to include a 
wider audience.  
 

-  Relocating our training centre to allow for 
easier commuter access. This makes our 
progression training more accessible, and 
helps when recruiting.  
 
 

-  Organically grown into a leadership and 

area operations team which is represented 
equally by men and women 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-  Reviewing our family friendly policies and 
practises to attract more females through 
our recruitment practises. 

-  Ensuring we continually review our 

progression programmes to ensure that they 
are inclusive to all genders and lifestyles 

-  Reviewing our employees total reward 

package, and ensuring we are providing an 
equal and competitive offering for 
employees of all backgrounds and genders, 
in respect to their role 

-  UK Wide diversity and inclusion training to 
eradicate any unconscious bias throughout 
recruitment, pay and promotion activities. 

I can confirm the information in this report 
is correct.  

 

 

 

Per Voegerl- Managing Director  UK

