UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018

Introduction
Expeditors International UK Ltd. (“Expeditors”) is committed to providing all persons an equal employment opportunity. 
Our data is a snapshot from 5 April 2017 in respect of 581 employees employed in our UK business at that time.

What is a gender pay gap?
A gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the average hourly rate of pay of women and men, regardless of their roles or work. It is different from an equal pay 
comparison, which would involve directly comparing the pay of women and men carrying out the same, similar or equivalent work.

What is the median gender pay gap?
If all our female employees lined up in order of lowest hourly rate of pay to highest and all our male employees did the same, the median gender pay gap is the 
difference in the hourly rate of pay between the female employee in the middle of their line and the male employee in the middle of their line.

Our median gender pay gap is 14% (lower than the wider UK economy benchmark of 18.4%1).

What is the mean gender pay gap?
This is the difference between the average hourly rate of pay for all female employees and the average hourly rate of pay for all male employees. 

Our mean gender pay gap is 19% (comparable with the wider UK economy benchmark of 17.4%2).

How are the pay quartiles calculated?
Quartiles are calculated by listing the rates of pay for each employee across the business from lowest to highest, before splitting that list into four equal-sized groups 
and calculating the percentage of females and males in each. 

At Expeditors, we have the following proportions of female and male employees in each quartile: 

Top quartile

Upper middle 

Lower middle 

quartile

quartile

Lower quartile

Female (20%)

Female (40%)

Female (51%)

Female (33%)

Male (80%)

Male (60%)

Male (49%)

Male (67%)

What is the bonus pay gap?
The same mean and median calculations are carried out when comparing bonus pay paid to female and male employees over the 12-month period ending 5 April 2017. 
Our mean bonus gap is 73% and our median bonus gap is 37%. 

Who receives bonus pay?
99% of both women and men receive bonus pay.

99%

99%

I confirm the data reported is accurate.

Tim Barber
Director, Expeditors International (UK) Ltd.
Executive Vice President, Europe, Expeditors International of Washington, Inc.

1  Based on estimates from the Office for National Statistics 
Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017
2  See footnote 1 above

© 2018 Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. All rights reserved.

