                                      Menu Order Location Fanatics Login About Jobs Contact           © 2018 Five Guys    UK  FR  ES  DE  USA  CAN          FAQ  Feedback  Contact ×    Allergens & Dietary Restrictions   Is Five Guys Gluten Free  Do you offer any food which is suitable for vegetarians?  Does Five Guys use Halal meat?  Do any Five Guys products contain soy or dairy?  Why can&apos;t we take peanuts outside?  If so many people are allergic to peanuts, why does Five Guys continue to offer them?  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here?  Company Information   Is Five Guys franchising in the UK?  How does Five Guys protect against modern slavery and human trafficking?  Where can I find Five Guys Gender Pay report?  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here?  Gift Cards & Coupons   Does Five Guys offer coupons or discount?  Does Five Guys offer gift cards?  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here?  Menu & Nutrition   Why does Five Guys only serve burgers cooked well done?  Does Five Guys serve organic or free range beef?  Where can I find nutritional information on Five Guys food?  What type of peanut oil does Five Guys use?  Why don&apos;t your UK locations offer root beer?  What is the difference between Five Guys Style and Cajun fries?  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here?  Restaurants   What are your hours?  Why can&apos;t we take peanuts outside?  How do I find out when a new restaurant os opening near me?  Does Five Guys accept bookings / reservations?  Why don&apos;t your UK locations offer root beer?  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here?  Allergens & Dietary Restrictions   Is Five Guys Gluten Free  "We are proud to offer our customers with gluten sensitivity many great options! The only products we offer that contain gluten are our buns, HP sauce, our Malted Milk and Oreo Cookie milkshake mix-ins and the malt vinegar condiment for our fries.  Since Five Guys buns are not gluten free, we offer our customers the option of going bun-less! You may order a
        burger in a No Bun Bowl or lettuce wrap. We even suggest bringing your favorite gluten free bun with you as it
        is a pretty simple burger to bun transfer. However, please note that due to food safety concerns, we are unable
        to prepare your meal with this bun.  Five Guys beef is gluten free, consisting of 100% 80/20 ground chuck with no additives, fillers, or
        preservatives. Our bacon is gluten free as well. Both are prepared on dedicated grills separate from our bun
        toasting grills.  Our fries are also gluten free. They are simply fresh cut potatoes soaked in water and then fried in dedicated
        fryers using 100% refined peanut oil.  While we do all we can to avoid it, there is always a risk of cross contamination. Be sure to use caution! For
        your convenience, our kitchens are kept open so you may watch your food being prepared."  ×   Do you offer any food which is suitable for vegetarians?  Yes, to a certain extent. Our veggie sandwich and grilled cheese sandwiches are suitable for lacto-vegetarians.
        One thing to take note of is that our veggie sandwich is NOT a veggie burger. Our veggie sandwich consists of as
        many "veggie" toppings as you desire and served on our basic bun. You can add cheese if you please. Our bread is
        toasted, but usually on a separate grill from meat products. However, there is always a chance for cross
        contamination, so please check at the individual location where you are ordering to be certain. Finally, our
        fries are just plain potatoes cooked in 100% peanut oil and are suitable for even vegan diets.  ×   Does Five Guys use Halal meat?  Five Guys does not serve Halal meat.  ×   Do any Five Guys products contain soy or dairy?  Our rolls contain both soy and dairy. Our cheese and milkshakes are dairy products as well.  ×   Why can&apos;t we take peanuts outside?  Although it is rare that a casual encounter with peanuts will cause an allergic reaction, we want to limit the risk of someone unknowingly coming into contact with peanuts.  ×   If so many people are allergic to peanuts, why does Five Guys continue to offer them?  Over the past 20 years, peanuts have become part of the Five Guys identity. We by no means want to exclude guests from our stores, but at the same time we would not want to disappoint our peanut eating guests. We make sure that we have signage on our doors and in our restaurants about the fact that we serve peanuts in bulk containers, as we would never want someone to risk their health by coming into our restaurants.  ×  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here? Send us an enquiry and we will be happy to answer your question. ×  Company Information   Is Five Guys franchising in the UK?  Five Guys is not currently franchising in the UK. However, we will be opening additional corporate owned locations throughout the UK.  ×   How does Five Guys protect against modern slavery and human trafficking?  Please see the attached document for our statement regarding these important issues.  ×   Where can I find Five Guys Gender Pay report?  The report is now available by clicking here   ×  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here? Send us an enquiry and we will be happy to answer your question. ×  Gift Cards & Coupons   Does Five Guys offer coupons or discount?  Five Guys does not offer any coupons or discounts. Heck, employees at the Five Guys can only get free burgers if
        they are working in the store! Why? We strive to serve the highest quality product possible, at a reasonable price,
        everyday! We do not discount the price of our product because we refuse to discount the quality of our product.  ×   Does Five Guys offer gift cards?  Yes! You can purchase Five Guys gift cards in any of our restaurant locations. Please note that gift cards are only redeemable at Five Guys locations within the country the gift card was purchased.  ×  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here? Send us an enquiry and we will be happy to answer your question. ×  Menu & Nutrition   Why does Five Guys only serve burgers cooked well done?  By cooking all of our burgers juicy and well done we are able to achieve two goals: - ensure a consistent product, - and meet or exceed health code standards for ground beef. We understand that there are varying opinions on what level a burger should be cooked for optimal flavour and our
        opinion is that our burgers taste best cooked juicy and well done.  ×   Does Five Guys serve organic or free range beef?  While our beef is neither organic nor are the cattle free range, our distributor purchases raw materials from a
        reputable and well known meat supplier in the UK who are required to treat the cattle humanely and follow all the
        procedures set forth by the UK.  ×   Where can I find nutritional information on Five Guys food?  Our nutritional information is listed right on this site. Get a copy of our nutritional guide and you will find the
        nutritional information broken out by ingredient type so that you can build your burger!  ×   What type of peanut oil does Five Guys use?  We use 100% peanut oil that is refined and contains only enough preservatives (less than .004%, so that the oil
        doesn&apos;t foam when we put our fries in!).  ×   Why don&apos;t your UK locations offer root beer?  Unfortunately, we are not able to source root beer in the UK through our beverage provider. We are actively looking
        for ways to offer root beer to our UK customers and hope to be able to do so in the future.  ×   What is the difference between Five Guys Style and Cajun fries?  Both types of our fries are fresh cut potatoes fried in 100% refined peanut oil. Five Guys Style fries are then
        dusted in salt, while Cajun fries are dusted in salt and a spicy Cajun seasoning blend. Try both to find your
        favourite!  ×  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here? Send us an enquiry and we will be happy to answer your question. ×  Restaurants   What are your hours?  Restaurant hours vary by location. Check the locations page for details.  ×   How do I find out when a new restaurant os opening near me?  Like us on Facebook at facebook.com/FiveGuysUK or
        follow us on Twitter at @FiveGuysUK to get the
        latest information on new openings.  ×   Does Five Guys accept bookings / reservations?  Five Guys provides counter service only and does not accepting bookings/reservations.  ×  Have a question that&apos;s not answered here? Send us an enquiry and we will be happy to answer your question. ×       ×       Nature of enquiry   - select reason -  Customer Feedback  Promotion  Marketing  Procurement & Suppliers  Property  Technical Website Issues       We'd love to hear from you! Thank you, in advance, for taking the time to let us know about your experience at Five Guys. We respond to all feedback. To help find an answer quickly, first check our Frequently Asked Questions .      Thank You  Thank you for your feedback.      Customer Feedback  To help find your answer quickly, first check our Frequently Asked Questions .  If you can't find an answer to your question, or to provide feedback on a recent Five Guys experience, please contact us via our feedback form.  Leave Feedback          First Name     Surname     Phone     Email       Comments      SEND            First Name     Surname     Phone     Email       CV        Comments      SEND         Only use this form for technical issues and feedback about the website. For customer and other feedback, choose the appropriate form from the list above. We are unable to assist with individual orders.     First Name     Surname     Phone     Email       Comments      SEND         Five Guys are looking for new restaurant opportunities in prime London and UK A+ locations, with high footfall and visibility of between 2,500 & 5,000 sq ft with at least 1,500 sq ft at ground floor. If your premises would be a perfect fit for Five Guys, please contact the Real Estate team using this form.     First Name     Surname     Phone     Email       Comments      Number Of Floors      Total Floor Space        sq.m  sq.ft      Building Number/Name     Street Name     City     Postcode      SEND          ×        PHONE  24 Hour Customer Hotline  0800 0833 005  Media Enquiries  +1 703 339 2835 (U.S.)     FIELD SUPPORT  Units 2-3, 1 Bard Road London, W10 6TP         FOLLOW US          Terms & Conditions  Privacy Policy  Cookie Policy        Impressum     Verantwortlich für den Inhalt ist:  Five Guys Germany GmbH Neumannstr.10 D – 40235 Düsseldorf  Email: info@fiveguys.de  Telefon: +49 (0)211 546 9005    Sitz der Gesellschaft: Düsseldorf;  Geschäftsführer: Jörg Gilcher / Holly Elliott / John Haden Eckbert;  eingetragen im Handelsregister des AG Düsseldorf unter HRB 79860    VAT ID-No. DE311238217     OK    