Gender Pay Gap Report for East Lindsey District Council 

Commencing from March 2017, public sector employers with more than 250 employees will be 

required by law to report and publish Gender Pay Gap information; this essentially is the average 

difference between men and women’s aggregate hourly pay. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 31 March 2017, and the Council will be required to publish 

its first report by 30 March 2018. 

•  The mean gender pay gap for ELDC is -1.8% 
•  The median gender pay gap for ELDC is -10.0% 
•  The mean gender bonus gap for ELDC is 0% 
•  The median gender bonus gap for ELDC is 0% 
•  The proportion of male employees in ELDC receiving a bonus is 0% and the proportion of 

female employees receiving a bonus is 0% 

Pay Quartiles by Gender 

Band  Males 
A 
67.9% 

Females  Description 
32.1% 

55.4% 

44.6% 

51.8% 

48.2% 

60.7% 

39.3% 

B 

C 

D 

 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them in 
the lower quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them in 
the lower middle quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them in 
the upper middle quartile 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them in 
the upper quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the 

Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

Background 

By law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

•  The same or broadly similar work; 
•  Work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 
•  Work of equal value. 

East Lindsey District Council is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 

treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil 

partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability.  It is 

committed to paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or 

any other characteristic set out above). 

The Mean and Median pay gap is a negative figure, demonstrating that pay for female employees is 

proportionately higher than that for males.  This is predominantly owing to the following factors 

factors: 

•  A significant proportion of the workforce working in lower paid roles are those which are 

traditionally filled predominantly by men, in the refuse collection and Neighbourhoods 

(grounds maintenance and street cleansing) departments. 

•  The positions in the Councils Senior Management Team are held by 50% male and 50% 

female employees 

•  The upper and lower middle quartiles are made of a closely equal proportion of males and 

females 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles (especially 

very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men to be in front-

line roles at the lower end of an organisation.  In addition, men are more likely to be in technical and 

IT-related roles, which have higher salaries than other roles at similar levels.  Women are also more 

likely than men to have time off from work that have affected their career progression, for example 

bringing up children.  They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are 

available across the UK on a part time basis are relatively low paid. 

The information can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender.  This shows East 

Lindsey’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A 

including the lowest paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest 

paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an 

equal ratio of men to women in each Band. 

Comparison to Other Organisations 

The majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and East Lindsey District Council’s gap 

compares favourably with that of other organisations.  At the point of publishing, limited 

comparable data had been published to provide below.  As this process becomes embedded, this 

report will look to include local and comparable Council’s Gender Pay Gap. 

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the 2017 Office for National 

Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.5%. 

 

Mean gender 
pay gap 
Median gender 
pay gap 

 

East Lindsey District 
Council 
-1.8% 

2016 ONS ASHE whole 
economy 
17.4% 

-10.0% 

18.4% 

Addressing the Gender Pay Gap 

While East Lindsey District Council’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations 

across the whole UK economy, it is still committed to doing everything that it can to equalise pay 

wherever possible.  However, the Council also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some 

areas – it has, for example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the 

career choices that they make. 

To date, the steps that the Council has taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce 

include the following: 

•  The Council has an up to date and relevant Flexible Working Policy which encompasses 

recent legislation around men and women being able to apply equally for flexible working 

patterns. 

•  The Council endeavours to fully support employees prior to, during and on return from 

maternity and other parental leave. It has robust Maternity, Paternity, Adoption and Shared 

Parental Leave policies in place to shape how the Council pledges to do this. 

 

Next Steps 

East Lindsey District Council must report every year on 31 March – first published report on 31 

March 2018.  This must be published on the East Lindsey website in a manner that is accessible to all 

employees and the public, and must be kept online for at least 3 years.  It must also be uploaded 

onto the website designated by the Secretary of State. 

