 

 
BFI	Gender	Pay	Gap	Report:	as	at	31	March	2017	
	
Background	
The	 Gender	 Pay	 Gap	 legislation	 requires	 organisations	 with	 250	 or	 more	 employees	 to	
publish	 statistics	 to	 show	 how	 large	 the	 gender	 pay	 gap	 is	 within	 the	 organisation.	 The	
following	statistics	are	required:	

•  Mean	hourly	rate	gender	pay	gap	
•  Median	hourly	rate	gender	pay	gap	
•  Mean	bonus	payment	gender	bonus	gap	
•  Median	bonus	payment	gender	bonus	gap	
•  The	percentage	of	male	and	female	employees	who	received	bonuses	
•  The	percentage	of	male	and	female	employees	in	each	pay	quartile		

	

	

	

	

	

	
	

The	following	data	is	taken	as	at	31	March	2017	and	relates	to	the	period	01	April	2016	to	
31	March	2017.	
	
The	gender	pay	gap	is	designed	to	show	the	difference	in	the	average	pay	between	all	men	
and	women	within	a	workforce.	It	is	different	to	equal	pay	which	looks	at	the	differences	in	
pay	between	male	and	female	employees	in	the	same	or	similar	jobs	of	equal	value.			
	
	
BFI	Gender	Pay	Gap		
	
Percentage	of	staff	as	at	31	March	2017	
	
Mean	Gender	Pay	Gap:	0.46%	
	
Median	Gender	Pay	Gap:	3.85%	
	
The	mean	gap	between	men	and	women’s	average	hourly	rate	at	the	BFI	is	0.46%	in	favour	
of	men	and	the	median	difference	is	3.85%	in	favour	of	men.		
	
The	Civil	Service	published	an	11.0%	(mean)	and	12.7%	(median)	gender	pay	gap	in	2017.	
In	comparison	with	others	within	the	screen	sector:	
The	BBC	has	published	a	10.7%	(mean)	and	9.3%	(median)	gender	pay	gap		
Channel	Four	has	published	a	28.6%	(mean)	and	24.2%	(median)	gender	pay	gap.		
	
	
	
	

Female		
49%	
	

Male	
51%	

	

 

1 

	
BFI	Bonus	Pay	Gap		
	
Percentage	of	female	and	male	employees	who	received	a	bonus	in	2016/17:	

Male	
18.18%	

Female		
19.55%		

	
	

	
Mean	Bonus	Pay	Gap:	 21.38%	
	
Median	Bonus	Pay	Gap:	 55.82%	
	
As	per	the	civil	service	guidance	the	bonus	gap	calculations	include	any	payments	made	to	
staff	whether	performance	related	or	not	(such	as	childcare	allowances,	gym	and	cinema	
ticket	allowances	available	to	employees).	There	are	no	performance	related	bonuses	paid	
to	our	employees	outside	of	the	BFI	Executive.	Details	of	executive	bonuses	are	available	in	
the	BFI’s	annual	report.		
	
When	looking	at	those	who	received	a	bonus	payment	in	2016/17,	48%	were	female	and	
52%	were	male.	The	bonus	gap	is	partly	explained	by	the	larger	percentage	of	women	who	
received	a	bonus	payment	working	part	time	(and	therefore	receiving	a	pro-rated	payment	
27.1%)	compared	to	men	(11.5%).	
	
BFI	Pay	Quartiles	

	
For	most	of	the	pay	quartiles,	men	and	women	are	split	almost	evenly,	however,	our	3rd	
quartile	 is	 more	 heavily	 populated	 by	 men	 (55%)	 compared	 to	 women	 (45%).	 This	 helps	
explain	the	slightly	higher	median	gender	pay	gap,	compared	to	the	mean.	The	3rd	quartile	
represents	our	junior	to	middle	management	roles.	

 

2 

	
What	we	are	doing	about	the	gender	pay	gap	
	
Whilst	we	are	encouraged	by	our	results	we	are	recognise	that	they	represent	a	snapshot	in	
time	 and	 we	 will	 be	 aiming	 to	 narrow	 if	 not	 reach	 a	 ‘zero	 gap’	 position.	 We	 remain	
committed	to	increasing	access	to	our	opportunities	and	the	diversity	of	our	people	profile.	
Our	initiatives	include:	
	
Our	Behaviour:	to	ensure	that	everyone	feels	included	regardless	of	their	background		

-  We	 have	 advised	 and	 implemented	 for	 the	 UK	 film	 industry	 initiatives	 to	 tackle	
bullying	and	harassment.	We	are	rolling	out	unconscious	bias	training	across	the	BFI	
ion	2017/18,	along	with	diversity	and	inclusion	training	for	all	in	2018/19	which	will	
also	 focus	 on	 our	 zero	 tolerance	 to	 any	 form	 of	 bullying	 and	 harassment	 and	 our	
commitment	to	‘treating	each	other	well’.	

	
Our	Culture:	Driving	an	open,	inclusive	and	fair	culture	from	the	top	

-  We	will	be	working	with	ENEI	to	develop	our	inclusive	leadership	approach	
-  Our	brand	values	are	‘Inspiring,	Approachable	and	Responsive’.		
-  We	will	continue	our	campaign	to	ensure	that	all	our	people	provide	their	profile	

information	to	enable	us	to	better	target	our	diversity	and	inclusion	initiatives.	

	
Our	Pay:	Rewarding	all	employees	fairly,	regardless	of	gender	

-  We	pay	the	London	Living	Wage	plus	a	differential	to	all	employees	across	the	BFI	

(regardless	of	their	work	base).	

	
Our	People	Support:	to	ensure	that	we	support	and	retain	our	people	

-  To	 encourage	 women	 returners	 (and	 support	 all	 working	 parents)	 we	 operate	 a	
generous	childcare	scheme,	supported	by	flexible	working	practices	and	encourage	
shared	parental	leave	on	enhanced	terms.	

-  We	 offer	 wellbeing	 initiatives	 throughout	 the	 year	 and	 participated	 in	 the	 MIND	
wellbeing	 index	 in	 2017/18.	 We	 also	 provide	 an	 Employee	 Assistance	 Programme	
that	is	frequently	used	by	employees	for	advice	and	support	on	a	wide	range	of	life	
topics.		

	
Our	Talent:	Attracting	plus	identifying	and	supporting	our	talent	and	their	progress	

-  We	 operate	 ‘blind’	 recruitment	 at	 the	 longlisting	 stage	 and	 review	 our	 person	
specifications	 for	 each	 role	 to	 ensure	 they	 are	 the	 ‘minimum	 requirements’	 to	
reflect	the	competencies	required	for	the	role.	We	are	Disability	Confident,	using	a	
similar	 process	 to	 also	 ensure	 that	 BAME	 candidates	 who	 meet	 our	 ‘minimum	
requirements’	 for	 a	 role	 are	 also	 invited	 to	 first	 interview.	 We	 are	 long	 serving	
Stonewall	Champions.	

-  We	 are	

looking	 at	 our	 succession	 planning	 plus	 talent	

identification	 and	
development	to	ensure	that	we	have	a	plan	in	place	for	our	mission	critical	roles	and	
match	 these	 to	 our	 aspiring	 talent.	 	 We	 are	 looking	 at	 introducing	 apprentices	 in	
technical	areas	to	support	women	into	STEM	initiatives	(including	into	supervisory	
roles).	

-  We	are	one	of	five	cultural	organisations	taking	part	in	the	Accelerate	Programme,	
to	support	disabled	and/or	BAME	employees	ready	for	a	move	into	management	to	
help	them	to	achieve	their	career	goals.		Our	funded	participant	is	female.		

 

3 

