Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

Specialist - Safe - Strategic - Smart - Supportive

Introduction

Cordant Security Limited provides manned guarding and specialist security 
services. We welcome the opportunity to publish our gender pay gap report, 
which has been taken from the pay details of the colleagues we paid in the 
pay period within which the 5th April 2017 fell (referred to under the relevant 
regulations as the “snapshot date”).

A total of 4,136 colleagues were paid within the relevant pay period, of which 
just 7.4% female, indicative of the sector within which we operate.

Notwithstanding the challenges this will present in us being able to deliver 
changes to our gender pay gaps in the near term, as part of our transition to 
becoming a social enterprise we are developing a good job strategy which 
will focus on how we will create and maximise a positive social impact.    

As we develop these strategies and integrate them into our future business 
plans, we will also take into account our gender pay gap data, ensuring 
diversity and inclusion remains a key focus area for the future.

I confirm the information and data reported within this report and submitted 
via the Government Equalities Office gender pay gap reporting service is 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Ken Steers
Group Human Resources Director

Understanding our gender pay gap report

How is the gender pay gap measured?

There are four key measures:

● Mean hourly pay and bonus pay gap
● Median hourly pay and bonus pay gap
●

Proportion of males / females that received a bonus in the 12 month period ending 
on the snapshot date
Proportion of males / females in each quartile pay band

●

How is the mean hourly pay gap calculated?

The mean pay gap is expressed as a percentage and shows the difference in the average 
hourly rate of pay between male and female colleagues.  This is calculated by adding up 
the hourly rates of pay for all females, and dividing this by the number of females, and 
doing the same calculation for men. The percentage is then calculated by taking the 
average hourly rate for females from the average hourly rate for males, and multiplying 
the result by 100.

How is the median hourly pay gap calculated?

Firstly, you rank all female employees in order of their hourly pay rate (highest to lowest). 
You then find the hourly rate of pay belonging to the female that is in the middle of the 
list. If there is an odd number of female colleagues in the list the middle person will be 
easy to find e.g. if 105 females then use the hourly pay rate for the female ranked at 
number 53. If there is an even number of female colleagues, then you find the middle two 
and calculate the average hourly rate of the two e.g. if 110 employees, you calculate the 
average hourly rate of pay for the female colleagues ranked 55 and 56 in the list.

The same calculation is undertaken for male colleagues, with the median hourly pay gap 
expressed as a percentage by taking the median hourly pay rate for females from the 
median hourly pay rate for males and multiplying by 100.

How is the mean and median bonus pay gap calculated?

The same as the mean and median hourly pay gaps (see above), but instead looking at the 
differences in the mean and median values in relation to the amount  of bonus paid in the 
12 month period ending on the snapshot date to male and female colleagues.

Understanding our gender pay gap report

What do the percentage pay gaps actually mean?

They effectively show how much more male colleagues earn in comparison to females in 
relation to average hourly rates of pay and average annual bonus payments, or vice versa.

If the percentage gap is a positive number it means, on average,  our male colleagues 
have a higher rate of pay and / or level of bonus payments than females. If the percentage 
gap is shown as a negative number, it means, on average, our female colleagues have a 
higher rate of pay and / or level of bonus pay than their male colleagues.

Important Note

The gender pay gaps  look at comparing the pay data for all male and female colleagues 
regardless of their job role, so is not the same and should not be considered to show that 
an employer is breaching equal pay rights, which focus on ensuring male and female 
colleagues receive the same rate of pay for doing the same or broadly similar job role.

What are the quartile pay bands?

This is calculated by ranking all colleagues, regardless of their gender, from the 
colleague(s) with the highest hourly pay rate in the organisation to the colleague(s) with 
the lowest hourly pay rate.  

This list is then divided into four quarters, with as equal number of employees in each 
quartile as possible.

The report then shows the proportion of males and females in each of the following pay 
quartiles:

●
●
●
●

Upper
Upper middle
Lower middle
Lower  

Want to know more about gender pay gap reports?

If you would like to know more about gender pay gap reporting please visit 
www.acas.org.uk/genderpay

Our results for 2017

Whilst as outlined in the introduction, 
females represent just 7.4% of the Cordant 
Security workforce that this gender pay gap 
report, they are on average paid higher 
than their male colleagues, with a much 
greater proportion of females (14.1%) 
being paid within the upper quartile pay 
banding, with females also being almost 
twice as likely to be paid a bonus.  This is 
largely due to a substantially greater 
number of male colleagues that are paid 
rates in the lower pay quartiles.

That said, the mean and median bonus pay 
gaps show in favour of male colleagues, as 
more males are employed in senior 
management roles where bonus payments 
are higher when paid.

Measure

Mean hourly pay gap

% Gap

-11.0%

Median hourly pay gap

-10.2%

Mean bonus pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

35.7%

59.2%

Chevron House  |  346 Long Lane  |  Hillingdon  |  UB10 9PF  | UK 

info@cordantservices.com | 01895 201 800  |  www.cordantservices.com

Specialist - Safe - Strategic - Smart - Supportive

