GENDER PAY GAP
REPORT 2017

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

GENDER PAY GAP

Inclusion and diversity are central to our values and we are 
dedicated to our core purpose of strengthening the society in which 
we live and work.

We understand that promo(cid:415)ng diversity and establishing a sense of 
community in the workplace is key to the success of our 
people-orientated business.

We are pleased to share here the ﬁndings of our Gender Pay Gap analysis which is in 
compliance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Informa(cid:415)on) Regula(cid:415)ons 2017. 
The data collected is from the UK Government’s snapshot date of 5th April 2017.

The Gender Pay Gap is the diﬀerence between the gross hourly earnings of men and 
women, so the closer to 0% an organisa(cid:415)on is, the lower the gap.

Our Mean 
Difference
0.2%

Our Median 
Difference
-0.4%

National Median 

Pay Gap
18.4%

The mean pay for 
men is 0.2% higher 
than that of women

The median pay for 
women is 0.4% higher 

than that of men

The Oﬃce for Na(cid:415)onal 
Sta(cid:415)s(cid:415)cs states that the 
UK median gender pay 

gap is 18.4%

QUARTILE DATA
The following chart illustrates our workforce composi(cid:415)on, which has been divided into 
four equally sized pay groups.

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO QUARTILE PAY BANDS

In order to calculate our gender pay gap, we have taken the pay data of all employees to 
ascertain any diﬀerence in pay between male and female employees irrespec(cid:415)ve of the 
posi(cid:415)on held.

In this report we have calculated both the mean and the median pay gap.  The mean 
percentage is calculated by adding the total hourly pay for all women, and dividing it by the 
number of women employed.  This ﬁgure is subtracted from the same calcula(cid:415)on for men, 
this gives us the Mean Diﬀerence.

The median is the middle value when all of the hourly rates of pay for women and men are 
ranked separately.  The median value for women is subtracted from that of the men and 
provides the Median Diﬀerence.

This has been reached by dividing all hourly rates paid across the company, from the 
lowest to highest, into four pay quar(cid:415)les.
We are pleased to report that these results are consistent with the gender distribu(cid:415)on 
for each of the four pay quar(cid:415)les. Our staﬀ are at the heart of everything we do, and we 
are proud to show that our report reﬂects the equality of men and women throughout 
the company.

OUR COMMITMENTS

We strive in all our work policies to provide equal opportuni(cid:415)es and 
believe recrui(cid:415)ng, developing and retaining the best diverse talent is the 
key to providing the best security services in the industry. We champion 
an inclusive culture throughout the company, and are commi(cid:425)ed to 
investment in the personal and professional development of our staﬀ. 

WWe welcome the a(cid:425)en(cid:415)on that this legisla(cid:415)on brings and the 
opportunity to share our progress. It has also given us the chance to 
iden(cid:415)fy and understand areas of focus for con(cid:415)nued improvement.

WWe are commi(cid:425)ed to increasing our representa(cid:415)on of women at all pay 
levels and are ac(cid:415)vely working to increase the percentage of women 
throughout the company. Our gender balance reﬂects the industry-wide 
trend, but we are determined to play our part in increasing the 
propor(cid:415)on of women employed in the security industry.

We will con(cid:415)nue to recruit our staﬀ through speciﬁc targe(cid:415)ng, 
ensuring that they are as diverse as the communi(cid:415)es they serve. 

We will priori(cid:415)se accessibility, taking con(cid:415)nued ac(cid:415)on to ensure we 
are always working towards gender equality. 

“

We are commi(cid:425)ed to strengthening the workplace, to be an 
environment of inclusion, equality and respect. It is wonderful to see 
this ac(cid:415)on reﬂected in the negligable gender pay gap reported and 
something that I, as the chair of the company, am extremely proud of.
It is our ongoing ambi(cid:415)on to encourage more women to pursue 
careers in the security industry by highligh(cid:415)ng and recognising that 

women are playing an increasingly important and valued role.

”

Ruth Henig CBE

SecuriGroup Chair

