        Jump to navigation    Skip to Content       Donate   About us  News  Work for us  Contact us     Login                Donate      Our Schools & College Close  search   Menu Close       Search form   Search                  Donate  Understanding autism  Talk about autism community  Campaign with us  Aged 16 - 25?  Get involved  Our schools and colleges  Our training and consultancy service         Schools & College   TreeHouse School  Ambitious College  The Rise School                We're ambitious about autism          Sign up   Donate   Take on a challenge                  Home            Information and Support   How can we help you today? Get practical information and resources and read other people's experiences and stories. Join our online community for adults with autism, parents and professionals. It has over 11,000 friendly members.  Information about autism  Talk about Autism online community  Training courses                             Featured     Channel's 4 new documentary Are You Autistic    Presented by our Youth Council. 28/03/18 10pm              Featured     Apply for an Autism Exchange placement    Paid placements available at Deutsche Bank and M/Six              Featured     World Autism Awareness Month    Empowering women and girls              Featured     Young people's content    Are you a young person with autism? Check out our youth blogs &videos.              Featured     Parent information and support    Are you a parent carer? Get information & join our online community.              Featured     Professional training    Do you work with people with autism & want better understanding?            Don't miss out! Join Team Ambitious.   You could make a difference and change the life of someone with autism and their family. Join Team Ambitious and support us by making a monthly gift, taking on a challenge or supporting our campaigns.  Make a monthly gift  Take on a challenge  Campaign with us                      Join Team Ambitious  Explore events       Join our amazing staff team  Apply now            We are Ambitious about Autism             We raise awareness We know that for society to accept 
autism as part of everyday life we 
need to increase awareness and 
understanding.       We run pioneering services We've been providing specialist 
education for children with autism
since 1997, including TreeHouse
School, the Rise School and 
Ambitious College. We also 
run training for parents and 
professionals by experts.       We campaign for change We strive to make sure that 
the people who make the policies
know how important autism is. 
We work hand in hand with young 
people with autism, their parents and 
carers and professionals.                  Our schools and college -  TreeHouse School, The Rise School and Ambitious College.  Tell me more        Talk about Autism -  Our online community for adults with autism, parents and professionals  Join our community         Stay ambitious     Founded by parents in 1997    15,343  Community members and supporters   Watch us on YouTube  Follow us on Twitter Find us on Facebook     Latest from Twitter   Tweets by @AmbitiousAutism       Find us on Facebook                       Get in touch  Contact us  Visit us  Work for us     Schools & College  TreeHouse School  Ambitious College  The Rise School     Website info  Privacy Policy  Terms & conditions  Accessibility         Follow us now:         Copyright Ambitious about Autism . All rights reserved. Ambitious about Autism is a registered charity in England and Wales: 1063184 and a registered company: 3375255.   Designed by Blue State Digital . Built by The Small Axe .     Back to top