               Connect  Gender Pay Gap Report  March 2018  In  accordance with The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations  2017 Connect has published its gender pay gap.   The figures are based on 5th April 2017 payroll figures.  The  results of this report have been reviewed by the Directors and have been viewed  as a true representation of the employment figures within Connect.  Connect  Catering work in a sector that is historically female dominated.  This is reflected in the Connect employment figures,  with a female bias in its employment balance of 60% female and 40% male. Connect employees who work less than 30 hours  per week are 73% female.      What are the underlying causes of  Connect’s gender pay gap?  The  lower and lower middle quartiles of our staff are predominately female, which  influences the mean and medium findings.   When the quartiles are individually calculated using the mean methodologies,  there is little or no gender pay gap, however in the upper quartile the gender  pay gap is female dominant.  The  reasons for the predominance of women in the lower and lower middle quartile we  believe is societal.  Female staff often  find work to fit with their other home responsibilities.  Much of Connect’s working hours cover the  lunch period and often during term time only.   As the cultural norms evolve and change, we would expect a more even  split in the lower middle and lower quartiles.  Under  the law men and women must receive equal pay for the same  or similar work and we are confident this happens at Connect.  What is Connect doing about the gender pay  gap  There  are no quick or easy ways to close the gender pay gap, and any changes may take  several years to show any impact. Under our ISO 9001 we have a policy of  reviewing and improving all our systems and policies every year.   Connect has recently reassessed training accessibility, to ensure that  everyone who is able and wishes to further their career with Connect are able  to fulfil their potential.    Gender bias awareness during the recruitment process has been reassessed.    A training programme has been rolled out to all managers in charge of  recruitment.   We,  Kate Bendall and Louise Laver, Joint Managing Directors, confirm that the  information in this statement is accurate.             