STANLEY Security Solutions Ltd
Gender Pay Gap 
Report - 2017

FOR THOSE WHO MAKE THE WORLD SAFER

 

2

Stanley Security Solutions Ltd is required by law 
to publish an annual gender pay gap report.
This is the report for the snapshot date of 5 April 

Mean and median gender pay gap

 

Pay gap 

Mean hourly pay 

Median hourly pay

26.65% 

20.12%

Proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band

Quartiles 

Lower 

Lower middle 

Upper middle 

Upper 

Male 

59.84% 

81.97% 

81.97% 

85.12% 

Mean and median gender bonus gap

Female

40.16%

18.03%

18.03%

14.88%

 

Mean Gender Bonus Gap   Median Gender Bonus Gap

Gender bonus gap 

98.47% 

73.37%

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment

 

Total 

Those in receipt of bonus 

Male 

376 

115 

% of male and female 
employees receiving a bonus 

30.58% 

Female

111

19

17.11%

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

What are the underlying 
causes of the gender pay gap

Under law, men and women must receive equal 
pay for:
  the same or broadly similar work;
  work rated as equivalent under a job 
      evaluation scheme; or
  work of equal value.

There can be misperception between Gender Pay 
Gap and Unequal Pay:

GENDER PAY GAP            vs        UNEQUAL PAY

The difference between the  
median average of men’s and 
women’s pay as a whole.   
 

Paying men and women 
differently for doing comparble
work (illegal in the UK) 

 

Stanley Security Solutions Ltd is committed to 
the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, 
race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil 
partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment or disability.

The Company has a clear policy of paying 
employees equally for the same or equivalent 
work, regardless of their sex (or any other 
characteristic set out above). As such, it:

  carries out an annual audit during the annual 
merit process to identify gaps and to adjust to 
market value.

Stanley Security Solutions Ltd is therefore confident 
that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying 
men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is 
primarily the result of the roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation and the 
salaries that these roles attract.

Stanley Security Solutions Ltd is a provider, 
installer and manufacturer of security and life 
safety systems and historically across the UK 
economy as a whole in this sector, men are more 
likely to be in technical, sales and engineer based 
roles and as a whole, men are more likely than 
women to be in senior roles (especially very senior 
roles at the top of organisations), while women 
are more likely than men to be in support function 
roles at the lower end of the organisation. 

The Skills for Security research carried out in July 
2015 reports that the average make up of 
employers within the security industry is 92% 
male and 8% female.

Women are also more likely to work part time, 
and many of the jobs that are available across the 
UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. In 
addition, the majority of line manager and senior 
manager roles are held by men. 

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay 
quartiles by gender. This shows the workforce 
divided into four equal-sized groups based on 
hourly pay rates, with the lower quartile including 
the lowest-paid 25% of employees and the upper 
quartile covering the highest-paid 25%.

3

Within Stanley Security Solutions Ltd, 60% of the employees in the lower quartile 
are men and 40% are women, primarily working in admin related roles as well as the 
‘blue collar workforce’ (customer service/apprentices/production operators). This 
quartile also has the majority of part –time employees most of which are women, 
and it represents the largest proportion of female workers in the organisation. 
However, the percentage of male employees increases throughout the 
remaining quartiles, from 82% in the lower middle quartile to 85% in the upper 
quartile. The majority of employees in the upper quartile represents middle 
managers right through to the senior leadership team (National Account Managers/
General Manager/Directors). Just under 15% of employees in the upper quartile 
are female, all of whom are employed in a senior role and most have 
management responsibilities.

The median pay gap for 
full time workers only in 
the UK is 9.4% (ONS).

How does STANLEY Security UK Ltd’s gender 
pay gap compare with that of other 
organisations?

The vast majority of organisations have a gender 
pay gap. The median gender pay gap for the whole 
economy (according to the December 2016 Office 
for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours 
and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 18.1%

The median pay gap for full time workers only in 
the UK is 9.4% (ONS).

A point to note when carrying out the calculations 
for the report is that the data for calculating hourly 
pay rates incorporates 26 employees who are 
eligible for a monthly car allowance, and also 
includes commission to sales representatives and 
standby/call out to Engineers and this will therefore 
have skewed the results. Similarly some of the lower 
pay rates are for apprentices within the business.

The median gender bonus gap is 73.4%, which is 
reflective of a predominantly male sales team, 
earning bonus as well as commission and the 
higher percentage of men holding senior roles. 

4

Actions to address the 
gender pay gap

Introduction

While Stanley Security Solutions Ltd’s gender pay 
gap is currently broadly in line with the UK 
economy as a whole, it is a subject which the 
Company is not complacent about and it is 
committed to doing everything that it can to 
reduce the gap. The Company recognises that 
its scope to act is limited in some areas, however 
director level and the senior management team 
are aware of this gap and committed to taking 
actions to reduce it. Below are some of the areas 
the Company will focus on over the next few years 
and some of the measures already in place to start 
to reduce the gender pay gap, which will need 
time to take effect before an impact is made.

1.Diversity & Inclusion 

a.Women’s Network
As part of its Diversity & Inclusion agenda, the 
company has launched Women’s Network and 
events have already taken place. The purpose of 
this network is to provide women across the 
Organisation an environment where they are 
empowered to pursue career advancement 
opportunities, achieve leadership positions and 
have access to resources to support their 
professional development. This is strongly 
supported by the President, James Loree and 
is a key focus of the European Diversity and
Inclusion Board. As part of this agenda, the 
following actions have been put in place:

 Global Diversity and Inclusion Program Manager 
has been appointed to drive the diversity agenda.

 A commitment to interviewing a diverse 
selection of candidates for every role, see below.

b. Catalyst Partnership
The Company has identified a partner, Catalyst 
who are a global NGO actively supporting 
organizations to work on diversity, but even 
more to drive change to create inclusive 
workplaces. This partnership will enable us 
to support our D&I goals in 2018.

c. Unconscious Bias Training
In line with the Global Stanley Black and Decker 
Diversity and Inclusion plan, will we will roll out 
Unconscious Bias training to all associates, with 
specific Manager and HR Training, this is to raise 
awareness and manage any internal unconscious 
bias which exists.

5

3.  Creating an evidence base

To identify any barriers to gender equality and 
inform priorities for action, the Company will 
operate gender monitoring to understand:

None of these initiatives will, in themselves, remove 
the gender pay gap and the Company recognises it 
may be several years before some have any impact 
at all. 

 the proportions of men and women applying   
for jobs and being recruited;

 the proportions of men and women applying 
for and obtaining promotions;

 the proportions of men and women leaving the 
organisation and their reasons for leaving;

In the meantime, Stanley Security Solutions Ltd 
is committed to reporting on an annual basis on 
what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and 
the progress that the Company is making. We 
recognise there is a gap, which we are taking very 
seriously and are committed to reduce this over 
the next few years through the positive initiatives 
outlined above.

 the numbers of men and women in each role 
and pay band;

Any further initiatives launched throughout the 
year will be reported in next year’s report.

 take-up of flexible working arrangements by 
gender and level within the organisation;

I, Stephanie Merrifield, Regional HR Director, 
confirm that the information in this statement is 
accurate.

 the proportion of men and women who return 
to their original job after a period of maternity or 
other parental leave; and

Signed

29 March 2018

 the proportion of men and women still in post 
a year on from a return to work after a period of 
maternity or other parental leave.

4.  Target

The Company will also consider setting a year on 
year aspirational target for hiring and promoting 
females, whilst ensuring compliance with our 
obligations under the Equality Act 2010 around 
positive action.

5.  Reviewing family friendly and 
flexible working policies

Stanley Security Solutions Ltd is committed to 
offering the opportunity to all employees 
regardless of role or seniority the opportunity to 
be considered for flexible working arrangements 
on application. The Company wants to offer the 
right working environment to allow all employees 
the opportunity to have a successful career 
regardless of working pattern.  

7

2. Recruitment and Selection

The Company is currently reviewing its 
recruitment procedures along with 
career development opportunities. 
The Company is particularly keen to 
attract and recruit more female 
technicians, project managers and 
sales representatives as well as 
female managers. 

The company aims to attract more females to its 
apprenticeship scheme by shifting from a traditional 
engineering background, which attracts more males 
to a more IT focused skills set, which attracts a more 
diverse pool of apprentices. If we are successful in 
increasing the number of female apprentices 
within the business, this may initially have an 
adverse impact on our gender pay figures, given 
that apprentices attract low salaries, but in the 
longer term our ambition is to increase the 
proportion of female employees in the higher 
earning quartiles. 

Currently within the security industry, encouraging 
females of any age or experience into the sector is 
a real challenge. In reviewing our recruitment 
procedures, the Company is reviewing how it 
sources candidates, using external agencies that 
attract a diverse range of candidates as well as using 
social media, and will continue to drive a practice of 
having diverse interview panels, with both male and 
female interviewers. It is important to demonstrate 
that there is a viable career path within the Security 
Industry irrespective of gender. However this can be 
challenging, with few women in senior positions 
across the sector. The Company will also continue 
to explore working with Universities and Schools to 
raise the profile of the Security industry and what it 
has to offer to women.

Stanley Security also plans to roll out training for Line 
Managers and Senior Managers on unconscious bias 
when recruiting and promoting employees into roles 
within the business.

6

