Back to main site 10 key themes Introduction 1. Antitrust in a changing political and economic world 1. Antitrust in a changing political and economic world 2. International trade in 2017 3. Global M&A 4. Big Data 5. Selling online 6. Antitrust litigation 7. Antitrust investigations 8. Extending the reach of antitrust into new policy areas 8. Extending the reach of antitrust into new policy areas 9. IP and antitrust 10. Disruptive innovation 2017 events Key contacts Amsterdam Beijing Berlin Brussels Hong Kong London Madrid Moscow Paris Rhineland Rome/Milan Tokyo Vienna Washington DC Return to Freshfields.com Return to freshfields.com Managing responsible business Our approach Our impact Our Impact Responsible business in action case studies Responsible business reports Responsible business in numbers Article 1 in your words Delivering responsible business Championing diversity Pro bono advice Supporting communities Protecting the environment Risk management & ethics Client engagement Delivering responsible business Championing diversity and inclusion Our aim is simple – to be a diverse and inclusive workplace where everyone has the opportunity to achieve their potential. This is vital if we want to attract and retain the top talent. We want to create a welcoming, positive and supportive environment in which all can flourish, regardless of their gender, race or ethnicity, background, religion, physical abilities, sexual orientation or gender identity. We also look beyond our firm through our involvement with external organisations and our collaborations with clients. We believe it is important to work with others to create sustainable change in our profession, the business world and our wider communities. We are making progress but there is more to do. We have a clear set of priorities and are focused on creating greater diversity – and greater inclusion – in the areas of gender, race and ethnicity, social mobility and sexual orientation and gender identity (LGBT+). Gender We want to ensure our firm is gender diverse at all levels, but particularly within the partnership. To achieve this aim we use a range of measures, including setting targets for partner promotions and initiatives such as our global sponsorship programme for women. We know it is vital to create a working environment that is equally welcoming to men and women. We also understand the benefits of bringing together people with shared interests and common goals, and our women’s networks are an integral part of this. Outside our firm, we take an active role globally in the 30% Club – a group of business leaders committed to achieving better gender balance at all levels of commerce. Race and ethnicity As a global organisation we want to broaden the firm’s representation among different races and ethnicities, particularly at senior levels. Our efforts in this area include our global Black Affinity Network, which brings together lawyers of black African and black African Caribbean heritage from across the firm. Externally, a number of our lawyers have been chosen by the Council of Urban Professionals to join a 10-month leadership training course. And we celebrate Black History Month in both the US and the UK, hosting talks and other events with a number of our clients. Social mobility We want to ensure access to careers in our firm and the legal profession in general is not restricted by a person’s social, educational or financial background. We aim to find ways to identify exceptional talent beyond traditional methods that view academic achievement as a prime indicator of potential. We run a number of programmes to address this. These include the Freshfields Stephen Lawrence Scholarship Scheme, our UCL scholarships, our Legal Outreach programme in the US and a professional skills workshop programme with ITE College East in Singapore. We also aim to provide opportunities for young school students from underprivileged backgrounds by supporting their aspirations to enter university, for instance through our partnership with Villiers Park. Sexual orientation and gender identity (LGBT+) In 2014 we became the first leading global law firm to enter the Stonewall Top 100 Employers for LGBT+ people in Britain. For the past four years we have featured in the UK Top 25, and have been named a Top Global Employer. We are also a founding member of Stonewall’s Global Diversity Champions programme. In 2017 we were awarded a gold medal by the wwP (work with Pride) PRIDE Index for our workplace inclusion efforts in Japan alongside being named a bronze standard organisation in the biannual Hong Kong LGBT+ Workplace Inclusion Index organised by Community Business where we also shared similar success in 2015. We have a thriving global network, Halo, for our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT+) staff, while our Champions network enables staff who do not identify as LGBT+ to actively support their colleagues. Halo hosts a global conference for all members every other year, providing an important opportunity for members to meet and support each other. Delivering responsible business Championing diversity Pro bono advice Supporting communities Protecting the environment Risk management and ethics Client engagement Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 UK diversity statistics View document In recognition of the under-representation of women on international tribunals, in 2015, members of the arbitration community (including Sylvia Noury, Partner in dispute resolution) drew up a pledge to take action. The Pledge seeks to increase, on an equal opportunity basis, the number of women appointed as arbitrators in order to achieve a fair representation as soon practically possible, with the ultimate goal of full parity. Find out more Related responsible business in action case studies Freshfields Stephen Lawrence Scholarship Scheme Opening doors for an under-represented demographic Stonewall Creating long-lasting change through its support for LGBT communities 30% Club The drive to put more women at the top Council of Urban Professionals Partnerships that advance diversity at the highest level Follow us © 2018 Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP