          Toggle navigation      Main navigation  Home  School Leavers  Degrees  Find your course  Access to Higher Education  Support  Enhancing Employability  Accommodation  Living in Blackpool  Alumni  HE Taught Regulations  Wider Information Set  Scholarship and Research  External Examiner Resources  Apprenticeships  For Business  Adult Students  International  Welcome  International courses  International fees  International Applications  Visa Guidance  About the College  Welcome  Celebrating 125 Years  Mission and Values  Why Choose Us?  Sector Endorsement  Governance  Annual Report  Sustainability  Equality, Diversity and Wellbeing  College and School Liaison  Policies and Procedures  Exams and Achievements  Term Dates  University Centre Travel Guidelines  How to Find Us  Job Vacancies  Prospectuses and Guides  Services for Students  Facilities  Careers Service  Financial Support  Overview  Financial Support for 16-18s  Financial Support for 19+  Financial support for degree-level students  Further Education Fees  Higher Education Fees  Higher Education Bursary Scheme  Advanced Learner Loan  Events  News  Course A-Z   Course enquiries  01253 504 343 General enquiries  01253 352 352 B&FC Twitter B&FC Facebook B&FC LinkedIn  Internal Links   Home  Welcome to Blackpool and The Fylde College Equality, Diversity and Wellbeing    Live Chat    Equality, Diversity and Wellbeing   B&FC is committed to equality, diversity and wellbeing in all its activities for everyone who learns and works here. We respect and value differences in race and ethnic origin, gender, disability, mental health, sexual orientation, age, religion and belief, additional learning, economic and social background. Demonstrating our comm​itment Student involvement - Our students are actively represented on our Equality, Diversity and Wellbeing Committee. The representatives are responsible for ensuring the College meets its obligations under The Equality Act 2010. Support for students - Our experienced and friendly Student Support and Wellbeing team are dedicated to ensuring all our students have a positive learning experience. Find out about the wide range of support available . DisabledGo - Our Estates team are passionate about ensuring our campuses are accessible to all. Detailed information and guidance about disabled access at all our campuses can be found on the DisabledGo website. Positive about Disabled People - We have been awarded the Disability Two Ticks Symbol by Jobcentre Plus. The symbol identifies those employers who have agreed to meet five commitments regarding the recruitment, employment, retention and career development of disabled people. British values - We strive to ensure our students develop a strong sense of social and moral responsibility by promoting the British values of democracy, individual liberty, the rule of law and mutual respect and tolerance. Find out more Learn more about B&FC’s commitment to equality, diversity and wellbeing by viewing the following statements and policies or by emailing us for further information. Related Documents B&FC: The Equality Duty 408.68 KB B&FC Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 609.26 KB B&FC Equality Statement 2016-2020 297.84 KB   | Celebrating 125 years Back to Top    Prospectuses and guides Choose a guide to start... Further Education Guide  Higher Education Degree Courses  Community Learning Courses  Get in touch with an experienced adviser Let us help you with your enquiry and get you in contact with the right member of our team.  Request a callback Request an email reply Get in touch Our academic standards are judged to be amongst the best in the sector. There has never been a better time to progress your career with B&FC. Bev Robinson Principal and Chief Executive   Explore the College   Accommodation  Careers Advice  College Life  Financial Support  Employers  Results      Accessibilty | Terms and Conditions | Feedback | Freedom of Information | Privacy and Cookie Policy | Job Vacancies  © Copyright Blackpool and The Fylde College, 2018   