GENDER PAY GAP 

REPORT 2017

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly pay for men and women across all ages, 
roles and levels as at 5 April 2017.  It differs from equal pay which looks at pay differences between men 
and women carrying out the same or comparable work.

WHAT’S OUR GENDER  
PAY GAP?
We are reporting two measures of our 
gender pay gap, the mean and the median 
gender pay gap.  The median gender pay 
gap removes any influence of very high 
and very low pay.

Our Gender Pay Gap Is:

mean   

median 

26.2%

15.9%

26.2%

MEAN

15.9%

1

2

3

4

5

MEDIAN

WHAT’S OUR BONUS 
PAY GAP?
The gender bonus gap is the difference 
between the average bonus received by 
men and women across all ages, roles and 
levels during 2016/2017.

The number of males and females 
receiving a bonus is:

male 

 

female  

94.8%

92.6%

94.8%

92.6%

The difference in annual bonus pay 
between men and women is:

mean   

median 

53.6%

23.9%

53.6%

MEAN

23.9%

1

2

3

4

5

MEDIAN

HOW IS PAY 
DISTRIBUTED?
The distribution of men and women is 
shown in pay quartiles which are calculated 
by splitting the workforce covered by 
gender pay reporting into four equal 
sized bands on hourly pay from highest 
to lowest.  The percentage of men and 
women is calculated for each band.

The proportion of women employed across 
the whole of Croudace is around 33% 
which is broadly reflected in the lower 
quartile and upper middle quartile. 

The top quartile is not representative of the 
wider gender split across the Group. 

PAY 

QUARTILES

84.8%
76.1%
47.8%
74.6%

Top quartile

Upper middle 

quartile

Lower middle 

quartile

Lower  
quartile

15.2%
23.9%
52.2%
25.4%

33%

OF OUR 

WORKFORCE 
ARE WOMEN

HOW DOES THIS COMPARE:

NATIONALLY

CROUDACE

18.4%
MEDIAN

17.4%

MEAN

15.9%
MEDIAN

26.2%

MEAN

CONSTRUCTION*    

16.3%
MEDIAN

*OFFICE OF NATIONAL STATISTICS 2016

WHAT IS CAUSING OUR GENDER PAY GAP?
Our analysis suggests that our gender pay gap stems from factors which are common to our industry  
not from equal pay issues, including:

•  Women are significantly under represented in skilled roles within house building and across  

the construction industry. In Croudace, this is reflected in the respective one third/two third split 
between females and men which in turn impacts our gender gap. 

•  An ageing male workforce is pervasive in construction particularly in higher paid site-based 

management roles.

•  More men are in senior executive roles reflected in the mean gender pay gap at 26.2%.   

The median gender pay metric removes the influence of the employees earning higher/lower  
salaries which is why the metric is lower at 15.9%. It is also lower than the national and construction 
industry average gender pay gap. 

•  We are caught in an industry that suffers from negative perceptions associated with a typical male 

dominated work environment. There is a lack of understanding of diversity of opportunity in the house 
building industry. 

WHAT ARE WE DOING TO CLOSE THE GAP AND PROMOTE 
THE INDUSTRY?
• 

In 2017 we conducted a job evaluation exercise across the group to confirm that we have no equal pay concerns and 
ensure that all roles are recompensed according to job role as opposed to the job holder.  This was implemented in 
conjunction with extensive external salary benchmarking.
Early in 2018 we completed a review of all job profiles and developed competency frameworks for each role and job 
family to ensure there are clear paths for progression based on demonstrable competence regardless of gender.
•  We are currently examining demographic data on our workforce to plan ahead, implementing gap analysis to 

• 

identify areas of work that are likely to require new staff and monitoring turnover, retention and reasons for leaving.  

•  We are developing career pathways and talent pipelines to identify individuals, particularly women, towards 

progression routes with more senior career trajectories.

•  We are currently developing a new Personal Development Review process with greater focus on competencies and 

tied into individual personal development plans. 

•  We have close links with our trade body, the Home Builders Federation and a number of allied professional 
institutions, working in collaboration to tackle issues facing all house builders which typically include a poor 
industry image and associated misconceptions, stereotyping, ageing work profile and a general skill shortage 
regardless of gender, nationality, age or role.  

•  We actively promote diversity of roles in the house building industry and that we are not just a builder but a developer. 

We have around 100 discrete roles covering an array of disciplines including land, planning, design, architecture, 
marketing and engineering. These disciplines are presently more appealing to females than site based roles. 

•  We have signed up to the Home Builders Federation skills pledge,  launched in October 2017, which urges the home 

building sector to commit to recruiting, training and retaining the right workforce to build the right homes, where they 
are needed, and collaboratively tackling the widening skills gap.  Associated work is aimed to attract a more diverse 
group of people into house building particularly school leavers and women.  

•  We are pro-active members of the 5% Club which is a movement of employers providing ‘earn and learn’ 

opportunities to develop the skills and talents people need to become more employable and create meaningful 
careers.  We work in conjunction with other members of the group to provide opportunities for people particularly 
those in under represented groups, for example females.  The ambition of the group is that members have at least 
5% of their workforce in ‘earn and learn’ positions (including apprentices, sponsored students and graduates on 
formalised training schemes) within five years of joining.  In 2018 13% of our workforce are in “earn and learn” 
positions and almost 50% of our undergraduates are female.

•  We continue to develop good relationships with educational establishments and have been involved in a number 
of activities including giving school children tours on site, work placements and general talks on the house building 
sector to explain the diversity of roles and opportunities offered.
In 2017 we introduced a “buddy scheme” for all new starters.  We hope that this gives additional support for new 
employees to enable them to adjust to the Company and workplace, particularly important for under represented 
groups including our female new joiners.

• 

•  We continue to update our facilities to ensure that our sites and offices provide a decent work environment for all 

employees.

