3 0 .4

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap %
Median Gender Pay Gap %

2 8 .4

 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
 
WHO ARE CHANCELLORS? 
 
Chancellors (The Chancellors Group of Estate Agents Limited) is a privately owned, independent Estate 
Agency company specialising in sales, lettings and property management. It consists of just over 50 
branches covering parts of London, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Surrey, Oxfordshire, Herefordshire and 
Mid Wales. Its Head Office is based in Bracknell and this houses its administrative and central support 
functions.  
 
OUR GENDER PAY GAP 
 
 
What are the mean and median gender pay gap figures 
 
based on? 
 
 
The gender pay gap is based on the hourly pay for employees 
 
that were employed on 5 April 2017 and who received full 
 
pay for that pay period. It includes basic pay, commissions 
 
and performance or role bonuses. 
 
 
 
Analysis and Comment 
 
We welcome diversity and completely agree with the ideals behind the gender pay gap report. It is im-
portant to note when considering the results of any gender pay gap report that the report does not meas-
ure the pay difference between a male and a female doing the same job, in the same geographic area, with 
the same working pattern. It also does not include any other pertinent information that may impact a per-
son’s salary or pay structure such as longevity of service.  
 
As a company, we are confident that we offer fair and equal pay deals to employees who perform the same 
role, at the same level, in the same area.  
 
Like the majority of the estate agency industry, our pay structure is heavily commission orientated in order 
to appropriately and fairly reward those employees who get results on behalf of our clients. The gender pay 
gap calculations include commission earnings and are therefore heavily impacted by an individual’s person-
al performance. 
 
Commission structures are standardised across each department albeit taking into account geographical 
area, seniority, length of service (some employees may be on historic pay deals). At Chancellors, commis-
sions are uncapped meaning that it is an individua’sl performance which decides their earnings. Basic pay is 
offered based on a candidate’s job role, experience and location but is on a standard scale. Last year we 
launched a progression plan for all Head Office based staff which details the minimum and maximum basic 
salary available at each job level to ensure basic pay is fair and transparent within each team. We aim to 
also launch a similar scheme for our branch based staff.  
 
We reviewed our gender pay gap  excluding commission payments to review that aspect of the gender pay 
gap which is controlled solely by the Company. Like most companies, we still expected to see a gender pay 
gap as the majority of the senior management team and all 3 of the Shareholder Directors who manage the 

 
Chancellors Group of Estate Agents Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Person Responsible: Robert Scott-Lee, Managing Director 

 

 

2 2 . 4

16 . 9

 

8 . 5

7 . 4

Gender Pay Gap

Excl Commission

3 0 . 4

2 8 . 4

Excl Shareholder Directors

Mean Gender Pay Gap %
Median Gender Pay Gap %

 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
business on a day to day basis are male. We appreciate this highlights a different issue which we come on 
to later in the report. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the above graph demonstrates, our gender pay gap is significantly reduced when commission earnings 
are removed from the calculations and further again if Shareholder Directors are excluded.This shows a 
gender pay gap of 16.9% (Mean) and 7.4% (Median) however given the proportion of males in the Upper 
quartile (see graph below), this is to be expected. 
 
 
OUR BONUS GENDER PAY GAP 
 
What are the mean and median bonus gender pay gap 
 
figures based on? 
 
 
The bonus gender pay gap is based on the total bonus pay 
 
 
received by employees that were employed on 5 April 2017 
 
in the 12 months directly preceding this date. Bonus pay 
 
includes things such as commissions, performance bonuses, 
 
competition win vouchers, customer service reward vouchers 
 
and long service awards with a cash value (e.g. vouchers). 
 
 
Analysis and Comment 
 
We were disappointed by the bonus gender pay gap especially given that bonuses are awarded for meeting 
specific performance criteria over a set period of time and are completely unaffected by anything other 
than an individual’s personal performance. Commissions are paid at standard rates (albeit they may be 
varied based on factors such as geographical location, seniority and department) and these are uncapped 
therefore again the figure is determined by the performance of the employee in question.  
 
These numbers are distorted by the inclusion of administration and support roles based in our head office. 
These positions are mostly filled by female members of staff. The pay package for these positions is 
primarily focussed upon basic pay with only small amounts of bonus pay. As some bonus pay has been 
earned then these employees are included with the bonus pay gap calculation however they cause 
significant distortion.  
 
 
Overall, given the significantly higher proportion of males in the senior positions within the Company, a 
bonus gender pay gap would be expected however we find this figure to be disappointingly high. 
 
 
 
Chancellors Group of Estate Agents Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Person Responsible: Robert Scott-Lee, Managing Director 

Mean Bonus
Gender Pay Gap
%
Median Bonus
Gender Pay Gap
%

76.6

61.2

 

 

 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
PROPORTION OF MALES AND FEMALES RECEIVING BONUS PAYMENTS 

 
What are these figures based on? 

 
This calculation works out how many male and female 
staff we have in total and what percent of these earned 
 
a bonus (including any commission payments, 
 
competition win vouchers etc) in the 12 months 
preceding the snapshot date.  
 

 

Analysis and Comment 

82.8

70.5

% Males
receiving bonus
payments
% Females
receiving bonus
payments

Technically, all employees are eligible to receive bonus/commissions as we have standard schemes in place 
for Employee Referrals and so on however there are a number of support and administrative jobs which do 
not have a specific commission scheme associated with the role and therefore you would not expect these 
staff to earn commission as standard. Given there is a higher level of females in Head Office administrative 
positions, this difference is not unexpected, but does demonstrate that not all members of staff are taking 
advantage of the standard commission schemes available to them as part of their employment.  

 

PROPORTION OF MALES AND FEMALES IN EACH QUARTILE PAY BAND 

 
What are these figures based on? 

 
This calculation organises the employees by hourly rate of pay and then splits the employees into 
quartiles. It then looks at how many males and females are in each quartile.  
 

 

 

 

5 4 . 4

4 5 . 6

6 0 . 4

3 9 . 6

6 3 . 3

 

3 6 . 7

7 6 . 9

2 3 . 1

Males
Females

Lower
Analysis and Comment 

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

The senior team within Chancellors (Directors, Area Managers and Department Heads) are predominantly 
male and this is reflected in these results. This also confirms the earlier gender pay gap calculation results 
where it is demonstrated that the average male hourly rate is above that of the female. This would be 
expected where there are more males in senior positions.  

These results show there is not an equal distribution of males and females at all levels of the company.  

 
Chancellors Group of Estate Agents Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Person Responsible: Robert Scott-Lee, Managing Director 

 

 

 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 
Certainly one factor we find is a significant lack of female applicants for senior positions. As example of this 
we have recently had a vacancy for an Area Sales Manager and also a Area Lettings Manager. We have  
analysed the male to female ratio of applicants.  

This revealed that 92% of the Area Manager 
applicants we receive are male and with this level of 
variation, it is to be expected that this will follow 
through to the proportion of employed males vs 
females. We will review what we can do to 
encourage more female applications to senior 
positions within the company however there is 
quite clearly a lack of volume when it comes to 
senior female candidates within our industry at this 
time. 

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 

92% 

Sales Applicants

Lettings Applicants

8% 

Male

Female

The Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 highlights that Chancellors has a gender pay gap which we believe is 
created by a lack of females in the senior tiers of the company and by a higher proportion of females opting 
to take support and administrative positions which are paid less.  

We are confident that all employees working the same job in the same area are paid fairly and have the 
ability to earn the same monies dependent solely upon their personal performance.  

We have identified that we do have a disproportionately low level of females in more senior positions in 
the Company and will review what we can do to encourage more applications, internally or externally 
where these positions become available moving forwards. 

 
Chancellors Group of Estate Agents Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Person Responsible: Robert Scott-Lee, Managing Director 

 

 

