UCB UK  
Gender Pay Gap Reporting

April 2018

At UCB we are proud of our diversity

At UCB, diversity is defined as the collective richness of people’s unique lives, 
backgrounds and cultural experiences. We believe that diversity can aid greater 
value creation, helping to build an environment where diverse perspectives, ideas 
and dialogues are encouraged and enabling our staff to fully contribute towards 
delivering patient value.

To maintain the diverse richness of our workforce, we consider the management of 
our gender pay gap to be very important. We have used the government mandated 
reporting as an opportunity to ensure that we continue to nurture an environment 
that allows all of our employees to succeed to their full potential.

We are committed to working closely with our 
managers to ensure that all employment and 
promotion decisions are based on merit, and 
there is no discrimination due to gender, age or 
ethnicity. We do not and will not tolerate any 
discrimination. When it comes to compensation, 
we make decisions based on performance, skills, 
qualifications and wider business relevant criteria, 
including external and internal benchmarks.

The current make up of our organisation has a 
higher proportion of men at senior levels, which 
means that our average male salary and bonus is 
higher than our average female salary and bonus. 
We are committed to hiring and promoting the 
best possible candidate for each role, however, 
we find that there are typically a higher number 
of male candidates applying for senior level 
positions and this has contributed to the current 
composition of our organisation. 

Indeed in our industry, although 42% of science 
professionals are female, only 15% of science, 
engineering and technology management 
positions are held by women.1 UCB is a member 
of the Science Industry Partnership and CaSE and 
is dedicated to encouraging more women and 
young people to pursue careers in STEM areas.

We strive to ensure that all of our employees are 
offered support from both a skills and a lifestyle 
perspective so as to equip them with the expertise 
and work environment to achieve their full 
potential. 

The UK Management team is committed to 
addressing the gender pay gap but equally 
recognises that this is a complex issue that will 
need to be addressed at a company, societal and 
industry level, and that we will need to partner 
internally and externally to make an impact. 

With a multi-pronged approach to addressing 
our gender pay gap, we hope to build upon 
the 10% increase in female employees in senior 
management positions observed over the last 4 
years, moving towards a ratio more representative 
of our mid-level roles.

Whilst our report identifies that we do have a 
gender pay gap, this does not mean that we have 
unequal pay. We ensure that compensation is 
fairly based on skills, qualification and experience, 
regardless of gender. We are committed to 
providing equal pay, not just because it is a legal 
requirement but because it’s the right thing to do.  

Steve Turley 
General Manager  
UK & Ireland 

Michele White 
HR Director  
UK & Ireland 

1.WISE Women in STEM workforce 2017 available at: https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/resources/2017/10/women-in-stem-workforce-2017 [Accessed April 2018]

2 | UCB Gender Pay Gap Report

What is a gender pay gap? 

To comply with UK law, all companies with 250 or more employees are now required to publish details of their gender 
pay and bonus gaps by 5th April each year.

A gender pay gap is a collective comparison – it is 
the difference between the average pay of all men 
in a company and the average pay of all women in a 
company, regardless of the work they do or job level 

This is not the same as equal pay which refers to 
paying a man and a woman the same amount for  
the same or similar work

Only employees on full-pay are included in 
the calculation 

Multiple factors may influence the  
gender pay gap

Employees on maternity leave and long-term sick leave 
have been excluded from the calculation. Part-time 
employees are also included based on actual pay not an 
adjusted full time equivalent. 

Bonus is measured on actual bonus awarded and not 
on a like-for-like basis. At UCB, 13% of our workforce 
are part-time employees, 92% of whom are female, who 
receive a prorated bonus, but there is no adjustment for 
this in the reported figures.

One main factor which can influence the gender pay 
gap is the sector the organisation conducts business 
within. For example, in our industry 42% of science 
professionals are female, yet only 15% of management 
positions are held by women.1  

1.WISE Women in STEM workforce 2017 available at: https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/resources/2017/10/women-in-stem-workforce-2017 [Accessed April 2018]

UCB Gender Pay Gap Report | 3

UCB Celltech R&D Gender Pay Gap

Proportion of men and women per hourly rate quartile

Lower

Lower Mid

Upper Mid

Upper

Lower

Lower Mid

Upper Mid

Upper

Reporting by pay quartiles is legally required by the new regulations. Using hourly pay, quartiles divide the list 
of earners ordered from lowest to highest, into four equal groups irrespective of job level or job family

Gender Pay Gap

Percentage difference in bonuses paid*

Mean gender 

pay gap

Median gender 

pay gap

28% 

26% 

Mean 

bonus gap

45% 

Median 
bonus gap

38% 

The UK national gender pay gap is currently 18.1%, in the professional scientific 

and technical areas this increases to 23.7%†2

Proportion of men and women receiving  
bonus payments*

Percentage of men and women  
receiving promotions**

95%

92%

men

women

48%

52%

men

women

All UK Employees - Senior Management & Above

Over the last 4 years the  
number of female employees  
in senior management positions  
has increased by 10% across all  
UK employees at UCB**

l

s
e
e
y
o
p
m
e
 
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P

 

80%

60%

40%

20%

0%

70
69%

31
31%

Female

Male

74
63%

43
37%

80
61%

51
39%

92
59%

63
41%

2014

2015

2016

2017

Year

Unless otherwise stated all data presented is based on UK UCB Celltech R&D employees only as per UCB’s statutory disclosure. Data for all UK employees (Pharma and UCB Celltech)  
can be found on page 7.
*Bonus data provided for bonuses paid in 12 months leading to 5th April 2017. Bonus eligibility impacted by maternity leave and start dates after 1st October 2017. ** Data based on all UK entities.
† Calculated using median gross hourly earnings
2. Government Equalities Office Data, 2016
4 | UCB Gender Pay Gap Report

34%40%41%47%66%60%59%53%UCB is working to create an 
environment which encourages both 
women and men to succeed equally

According to our annual employee engagement survey, 83% of both female  
and male employees agreed that UCB fosters workforce diversity and inclusion

Providing a flexible work 
environment for all employees

•  Opportunities for homeworking, 

flexible working and up to five 
additional days annual leave  
available for purchase

• 

• 

Support for parents through enhanced 
maternity and shared parental leave, 
childcare vouchers, consistent 
provision of a company car and 
private medical insurance, regardless 
of hours 

Introduction of a mentoring scheme 
for those returning to work from 
parental leave

Mentoring and leadership 
development programs 

•  UCB is currently re-launching a 
mentoring program to support 
employee development and 
preparation for leadership roles in  
the future

• 

Leadership development programs 
are already in place, however to help 
us achieve greater gender balance 
in senior positions we aim to ensure 
greater gender balance of employees 
participating in these programs

Preparing our future talent pipeline 

Supporting female leaders 

•  Talent and organisation review 

discussions are used to identify  
future leaders, here we need to  
ensure that we encourage more 
diversity throughout our talent 
management process 

•  We will ensure that women on 

maternity leave are actively reviewed 
during talent reviews and internal 
recruitment processes to ensure that 
female employees do not miss out  
on career opportunities whilst absent 
from work

Renewing our commitment to 
diversity and inclusion

•  UCB have recently created a new  
role with the main aim of focusing  
on diversity and inclusion  

•  Unconscious bias training is being 

rolled out across all leadership teams

•  This is a new initiative to support  

and develop female leaders  
through a structured learning  
program co-created with our  
female leaders and an external 
organisation to prepare our  
females for future senior positions

Jean-Luc Fleurial 
EVP Chief Talent Officer

“We are committed to ensuring that where 
employees are in the same role, with the 
same level of performance, there should 
be no pay gap in either direction” 

UCB Gender Pay Gap Report | 5

Female Leadership within UCB

Elena Coward 
Head of the UK & Ireland Bone Franchise

Throughout my 20 years at UCB, I’ve always built strong networks and identified mentors 
who have helped me to shape and build my career. With this support and UCB’s openness 
to allowing employees to explore new opportunities, I’ve enjoyed a diverse career path. 
My journey has progressed through Sales and Sales Management to Local, Regional and 
International Marketing and then Head of Market Access. Today I am able to tie together  
all of my past experience as Head of the Bone Franchise for the UK & Ireland.

During my career I have been on maternity leave twice and on both occasions I felt supported 
upon my return to work. I was able to successfully manage my work-life balance through 
the support of my manager and team, as well as having had the opportunity to work reduced 
and flexible hours. I have friends in other industries who have had to give up their jobs as they 
were unable to find the right balance, so I feel lucky that I didn’t have to make that choice.

My advice to anyone in the industry who wants to succeed in their career would be to have 
a strong idea of where you want to go and make sure that you communicate this to your 
managers, whilst building and owning your development. Make strong connections with 
people across your organisation, including with people who could act as mentors or  
advisors to you.

Alison Maloney  
Director of Cellular Sciences

I have always had a passion for science and obtained my PhD at the Institute of Cancer 
Research where I worked closely with clinicians researching a new drug. This provided me 
with insights into the true value that I could add to patients through drug discovery and 
translational research. I started at UCB 13 years ago, continuing to work as a lab based 
scientist. I gained experience as a project and team leader, before moving into a senior 
research leadership position. 

As I have progressed through my career I have always maintained a close connection with 
the science, whilst building my skills as a people leader, mentor and coach. I have been able 
to extend my professional network by working with academic and industry collaborators, 
and fostering interactions with funding bodies and government. For me, one of the most 
important things in my career has been to seize every opportunity to keep learning, and to 
share experiences with others on the path to discovering new drugs.

Erica Whittaker  
Head of UCB Corporate Venture Fund, VC Investments

Over 7 years at UCB I have been fortunate to be able to explore many new roles and 
challenges. I started at UCB as VP of Strategy and Partnering for New Meds, and have since 
progressed to Head of Market Access for EMEA and into my current role where I manage a 
€150 million strategic corporate venture fund which was set up to invest in innovative, longer 
term and higher risk opportunities beyond UCB’s current focus area. Despite having held both 
Regional and Global roles, I have always been given the flexibility by UCB to remain based in 
the UK with my family. This flexibility of location has been hugely important to me.

My career path has been carved through following my passions and embracing opportunities. 
I feel that it is important to stay on a steep learning curve and so I have pushed myself to take 
on new roles even though I have had to work hard to build up the new skills I needed at each 
level. A senior colleague shared with me a perspective that women will often wait until they 
have all the boxes ticked before they feel they can apply for a new role. As a manager, I feel 
that it is important that we don’t assume that because a woman has not applied for a role 
that she is not interested, and that we proactively work with our teams to ensure that we are 
supporting their career progression.

6 | UCB Gender Pay Gap Report

Data breakdown by UCB Celltech and 
all UK employees*

Pay

UCB Celltech R&D

All UK Employees  
(Pharma and UCB Celltech)

Mean gender pay gap between  
men and women

Median gender pay gap between  
men and women

28%
29%

Bonuses

100%

100%

26%
22%

100%

100%

Percentage difference in mean bonus paid in  
12 months to 5th April 2017

Percentage difference in median bonus paid in 
12 months to 5th April 2017

45%
46%

100%

100%

38%
44%

100%

100%

Percentage proportion of men and women receiving a bonus in 12 months to 5th April 2017

95%

92%

95%

93%

Men

Women

Men

Women

Percentage proportion of men and women in each salary quartile (irrespective of level)

Men

Women

Lower Middle
Men

Women

Lower

34%
31%

Upper Middle
Men

Women

59%
57%

66%
69%

41%
43%

53%
48%

Upper

60%
60%

Men

Women

47%
52%

40%
40%

Reporting by pay quartiles is legally required by the new regulations. Using hourly pay, quartiles divide the list of earners, ordered from lowest to 
highest, into four equal groups irrespective of job level or job family
*As we believe it is important to look at the gender pay gap for all employees, we have voluntarily disclosed the information for all UK employees who 
are employed by UK Pharma Ltd but are not within the scope of the UK government mandated disclosure

UCB Gender Pay Gap Report | 7

