                    Toggle menu    Customer Service: 0333 240 4400  New Sales Enquiries: 0330 404 2220    Search for:     Select Customer Type Hospitals CCGs Medical Practices Dental Practices Veterinary Practices Pharmacies & Chemists Nursing & Care Homes Tattooists & Beauty Clinics Labs & Education Other Healthcare Other Specialists  Select Service Chemical Waste Clinical Waste Dental Waste Disposable Sharps Hazardous Waste Infectious Waste Metals Recycling Offensive Waste Pharmaceutical Waste Radioactive Waste Sanitary Waste Services Bio Systems Stericycle Compliance Services WEEE Waste About Stericycle Resources News Careers Contact   Customer Service: 0333 240 4400  Sales Enquiries: 0330 404 2220 0333 240 4400   Search for:    The UK’s leading healthcare waste specialists Safe, compliant and sustainable solutions  For more information, get in touch A new name for a familiar service. SRCL is already part of the wider, global Stericycle Group and is proud to share the industry-leading services and standards that define the brand the world over. From 11 December 2017, we will change our name and logo from SRCL to Stericycle in line with our aim to have a consistent approach across all the countries, and customers that we serve. You may have already seen our new logo, for example on company vehicles, and moving forward you will begin to see other changes.  We collect and process more healthcare waste than anyone else. Stericycle provides complete waste services for the healthcare sector. With an extensive network of transport and disposal facilities across the UK, we provide a range of services to NHS trusts, GPs, dentists, pharmaceutical manufacturers, private sector businesses, research companies and many more.  We provide nationwide coverage... with a local service! Over 25,000 customers already enjoy our market leading service! Our unrivalled infrastructure of waste treatment facilities, transfer stations and comprehensive fleet of specialist vehicles gives us a real advantage over other companies.  We offer a true, ‘one stop shop’ waste solution! We collect your waste, we transport it…. and we treat it! We provide an end to end service, giving you peace of mind that your waste is processed with a full and robust audit trail, and with the environment in mind.  Sustainability We are wholly committed to a more sustainable future!  View more  Environment As a waste business, it’s only natural that we are concerned about the environment!  View more  Testimonials Stericycle is much more than just a supplier to us…we have developed a strong partnership, working jointly on solving service issues and implementing innovative solutions. Charles Joly, Environmental Waste & Sustainability Manager Working with Stericycle is a true partnership. By working together we are able to provide professional, efficient waste disposal, and ensure compliance with the latest waste legislation. Phil Chaloner, Waste Management Co-ordinator Stericycle Compliance Services is invaluable. The whole team uses it to study online and the freedom to use this at home is fantastic. Would I recommend it to others?…Yes I would! Patricia Pallister, Practice Manager Parkside Hospital has benefited from the partnership with Stericycle operationally, environmentally and financially… by having a proactive Product Specialist dedicated to support us, we have made significant advances. Andy Dawson, MIH Head of Non Clinical Services, Parkside Hospital Our clinical waste journey has been challenging and interesting. It has definitely been made easier by working in partnership with SRCL. Sid Siddiqui, Environmental Manager, Derbyshire Community Health News   12 Dec 2017 A new name for your familiar service. We are pleased to announce that from Monday 11th December 2017, SRCL Ltd will be known as Stericycle.   30 Aug 2017 Getting straight to point of Sharps Management! SRCL is set to attend the Infection Prevention Society’s (IPS) 10th Anniversary Annual Conference on 18 – 20 September 2017!   09 Jun 2017 Meet Stericycle environmental expert… Elaine Casey As part of our Sustainability Week at Stericycle, we caught up with our Environmental Manager, Elaine Casey to find out more about her key responsibilities and we asked her to share her top tips for working more sustainably.   Existing Customer?  Waste Reporting Login  Popular searches Sharps SRCL Locations Audits WEEE Waste Posters Jobs Dental Waste For a partner that delivers more Call 0333 240 4400 Email info@srcl.com  Make enquiry FAQs Do you have a question about Stericycle or our services? We can help!  View FAQs Twitter  FREE Waste Audit Tool  Stericycle's Online Waste Audit Tool is free to Stericycle customers who produce less than 5,000kg of hazardous waste per annum.  Read More Newsletter   Signup today to keep up to date with relevant news, events and information throughout the business  Newsletter Signup  Email *    Company Name *    First Name *    Last Name *    This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.     Get In Touch If you need to get in touch with SRCL please call us on 0333 240 4400 or use our contact us form Services Chemical Waste Clinical Waste Dental Waste Disposable Sharps Hazardous Waste Infectious Waste Metals Recycling Offensive Waste Pharmaceutical Waste Radioactive Waste Sanitary Waste Services Bio Systems Stericycle Compliance Services WEEE Waste Customers Hospitals CCGs Medical Practices Dental Practices Veterinary Practices Pharmacies & Chemists Nursing & Care Homes Tattooists & Beauty Clinics Labs & Education Other Healthcare Other Specialists About us Compliance Customers Customer Services Environment Frequently Asked Questions Infrastructure Our Processes Our Values Transport Contact Us Compliance Anti-bribery Policy Equal Opportunities Group Tax Strategy Modern Slavery Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Website Credits Whistleblowing Policy Gender Pay Gap  Follow us on Twitter  Follow us on LinkedIn    This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use this site we'll assume you accept our cookie policy. Accept  Read More       