                                               Menu    Call     ×  Call Back        Offline    Johnsons Sales      Offline    Johnsons Service      Close      Call Back  Search   Book a Service - 08451 649 545     Service Updates & Parts     Sales Enquiries - 08451 649 514     Book a test drive - 01527 583 025      ×  Call Back        Offline    Johnsons Sales      Offline    Johnsons Service      Close      Call Back     Saved     Call          Search    Home    New Cars   Nearly New  Abarth  Alfa Romeo  Fiat  Ford  Honda  Hyundai  Lexus  Mazda  SEAT  Škoda  Toyota  Volkswagen  Volvo     Used Cars   Nearly New Cars  Go Green Cars  Used Abarth  Used Alfa Romeo  Used Fiat  Used Ford  Used Honda  Used Hyundai  Used Lexus  Used Mazda  Used SEAT  Used ŠKODA  Used Toyota  Used Volkswagen  Used Volvo     Offers   Abarth Offers  Alfa Romeo Offers  Fiat Offers  Ford Offers  Honda Offers  Hyundai Offers  Lexus Offers  Mazda Offers  SEAT Offers  ŠKODA Offers  Toyota Offers  Volkswagen Offers  Volvo Offers     Motability   Personal Independence Payment (PIP)  Meet our Specialists  Alfa Romeo Motability Offers  Fiat Motability Offers  Ford Motability Offers  Honda Motability Offers  Hyundai Motability Offers  Mazda Motability Offers  SEAT Motability Offers  ŠKODA Motability Offers  Toyota Motability Offers  Volkswagen Motability Offers  Volvo Motability Offers     Aftersales   Book a Service  MOT  Parts  Fortron Treatment     Finance   Personal Contract Purchase  Hire Purchase  Personal Contract Hire  Personal Loan  Paint Insurance  GAP Insurance  Smart Repair at Johnsons  SmartPlus Repair at Johnsons  Combined GAP at Johnsons  Warranty Plus+ at Johnsons  GEN-3 Glasscoat at Johnsons  Tyre & Alloy Insurance     Fleet and Business    About Us   Gender Pay Gap  Latest News  Careers     Locations   Abarth  Alfa Romeo  Fiat  Ford  Honda  Hyundai  Lexus  Mazda  Saab  SEAT  ŠKODA  Toyota  Volkswagen  Volvo  Knowle           Back    You are here:   Homepage >  Gender Pay       ×  Callback        Offline    Johnsons Sales      Offline    Johnsons Service      Close      Callback    Book a Service     Dealer Locator    title                                      Saved Vehicles       Gender Pay & Bonus reporting statistics for staff employed at 5th April 2017 Johnsons Cars Ltd employed 830 “relevant employees” at the snapshot date (5 th April 2017) of which 778 were “full-pay relevant employees”. JOHNSONS CARS WORKFORCE Historically, the automotive industry has been heavily male orientated and it is therefore with no surprise that there is an uneven split between men and women. At the snapshot date, 75% of employees were men, 25% were women. Johnsons Cars is an equal opportunities employer and fully understands that equal pay between males and females is a moral obligation as well as complying with the Equality Act 2010. We undertake annual pay reviews and take any appropriate action to address any inequality should it be highlighted. GENDER PAY GAP EXPLAINED A Pay Gap is the difference in 
average pay between two groups within a workforce. It is not to be 
confused with equal pay which is concerned with individuals being paid 
equally for the same or similar types of work. The information given 
below concerns the Pay Gap between males and females within the 
workforce of Johnsons Cars Ltd. GENDER PAY GAP REPORT JOHNSONS CARS LTD Data at 05.04.2017 Mean Gender Pay Gap 15.5% Median Gender Pay Gap 10.9% ​The mean and median hourly pay gap reflects the demographic
of the organisation with a high proportion of male employees employed at the
senior level. This pay gap will continue to exist until a more equal split
between males and females are employed at all levels throughout the business. ​ JOHNSONS CARS LTD Data at 05.04.2017 Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 22.2% Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 40.4% Proportion of Females receiving Bonus Payments 49.8% Proportion of Males receiving Bonus Payments 77.4% Johnsons Cars operates performance related bonus schemes and
consequently the bonus pay figures confirm that most employees (70% of all
relevant employees) receive a bonus. Male employees who earn bonuses receive an
average of 22% more than their female colleagues whilst the median pay gap is
40% higher for male employees. The mean and median bonus pay gap differences
are due to the higher proportion of men in the “selling arena” (approximately
80% men) earning significantly more than 50% of their total income as bonus. GENDER PAY QUARTILES                                   Privacy & Legal  Cookies  Terms & Conditions  Site Map  Recruitment                                      Top     ×  Call Back        Offline    Johnsons Sales      Offline    Johnsons Service      Close      Call Back   Company Info     Head office   Reg Office: Johnsons Cars Limited
Empire Court
Redditch
United Kingdom
B97 4DA  Reg. Company Number: 3716766  VAT Reg. No. GB 927 5516 06  Financial Disclosure  Johnsons Cars Limited and its subsidiaries are an appointed representative of ITC Compliance Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (their registration number is 313486) and which is permitted to advise on and arrange general insurance contracts.
On average calls cost 3p per minute from a landline, mobile charges may be higher depending on your network operator. © 2018 Johnsons Cars. All Rights Reserved  www.johnsonscars.co.uk  © NetDirector ™ - Automotive Solutions                Back    Vehicle Valuation      Compare Saved Vehicles      Top          Close            Welcome to Johnsons Cars. To optimise your experience, cookie settings on the website are set to allow all cookies. By continuing your journey throughout the website, you consent to this. You can change these settings here.   Change Settings  Accept    Find out more about cookies         Strictly Necessary  Strictly Necessary cookies are essential to let you move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas, shopping baskets and online billing. These cookies allow our website to provide services at your request.      Disabled - Performance Cookies  Performance cookies collect information about how you use our website e.g. which pages you visit most often, and if you experience any error messages. They also allow us to update our website to improve performance and tailor it to your preferences. These cookies don’t collect any information that could identify you - all the information collected is anonymous. They will not be used to target adverts to you on other websites.      Disabled - Functional Cookies  Functionality cookies are used to remember the choices you make, e.g. your user name, log in details and language preferences. They also remember any customisations you make to the website to give you enhanced, more personal features.      Disabled - Targeting Cookies  Targeting cookies collect information about your browsing habits to deliver adverts which are more relevant to you and your interests. They also measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns.   change cookie settings                  Your Cookie Settings    Select your cookie settings       Strictly Necessary  Strictly Necessary cookies are essential to let you move around the website and use its features, such as accessing secure areas, shopping baskets and online billing. These cookies allow our website to provide services at your request.         Performance  Performance cookies collect information about how you use our website e.g. which pages you visit most often, and if you experience any error messages. They also allow us to update our website to improve performance and tailor it to your preferences. These cookies do not collect any information that could identify you - all the information collected is anonymous. They will not be used to target adverts to you on other websites.         Functional  Functionality cookies are used to remember the choices you make, e.g. your user name, log in details and language preferences. They also remember any customisations you make to the website to give you enhanced, more personal features.         Targeting  Targeting cookies collect information about your browsing habits to deliver adverts which are more relevant to you and your interests. They also measure the effectiveness of advertising campaigns.       Save Settings  Cancel Changes   Your settings will take affect when you refresh the page or move to a new page. Find out more about cookies                               