                Menu   Skipnav  High Contrast                   Cookies and privacy                      Search      Home Your Commissioner Biography of David Jamieson  Police and Crime Plan  What is a Police and Crime Commissioner?  Oath of Office  Working for the Police and Crime Commissioner  Election information  Independent Custody Visitors    News News 2014  News 2015  News 2016  News 2017  News 2018    Consultation Previous consultations and events    Transparency About the Office of the West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner  Policies of the Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner West Midlands  Budgetary and financial information  Joint Audit Committee  Record of decisions  Responses to national reports and consultations  Complaints and Conduct Matters  Freedom of Information Act  West Midlands Police and Crime Panel  Bob Jones Archive  Yvonne Mosquito archive  West Midlands Police Authority Archive  HMICFRS responses    Strategic Policing and Crime Board Members of the Strategic Policing and Crime Board  SPCB Dates of meetings and reports    What's happening Stop & Search  Youth Commissioners  Outstanding Citizen Awards  Weapon Surrender Bins  Victims Commission  Restorative Justice    Contact Impact Pathways               You are here:  Home /  News /  News 2018 /  Women paid more than men in PCC's office         News 2014  News 2015  News 2016  News 2017  News 2018        Women paid more than men in PCC's office  The West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner says he's
'delighted' no significant gender pay gap exists in his office.  In fact, women working in the Office of the Police and Crime
Commissioner are paid slightly better than their male
colleagues.  As of December 2017 David Jamieson's team consisted of 35 staff,
of which 22 were women and 13 were men.  The average hourly wage of the women working in the Office of
the Police and Crime Commissioner is £1.44 more than the men. It
means women are paid 7.2% more than their male counterparts.  On average, nationally, men are paid 18% more than women and
there has been growing pressure on organisations to correct the
imbalance.  Commenting on the pay within his office, David Jamieson said:
"The simple truth is that women and men should be paid equally for
doing the same work.  "I am very pleased to report that the women and men in my office
are not discriminated against based on their gender.  "I have noted that West Midlands Police force does have a gender
pay gap of 8% and I will be scrutinising them closely to ensure
they reach the standards expected".  The work on the gender pay gap at the PCC's office builds on
other equality work including ensuring there is a diverse mix of
employees from a wide range of ethnicities.   Additional Information  The West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner says he's
'delighted' no significant gender pay gap exists in his office.             Site Map   | Contact the PCC    Site Validation  W3C HTML5  W3C CSS  W3C Accessibility WCAG 2.0                  2015 © Copyright Police and Crime Commissioner West Midlands, Lloyd House, Colmore Circus Queensway, Birmingham B4 6NQ. Tel: 0121 626 6060   