BA CITYFLYER :;b 

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P  

REPORT 2017 

BA CityFlyer Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of British Airways Plc and employs 502* people. 
 
The principle activity of the company is flying scheduled passenger services at London City Airport. 

“We are committed to diversity in 
 
our workforce and are proud to be 
 
industry leading with women making 
 
 
up 15 per cent of our pilot workforce. 
We know we can’t stop there – we must 
 
work hard to further improve gender 
 
diversity, in particular across senior 
 
management, engineer and pilot roles. 
 
It is a journey, not a quick fix, for our 
 
industry as well as our company.” 
 

Caroline Osler – Head of HR 

At BA CityFlyer, we have a median gender pay gap of 42% 
 
and a mean gender pay gap of 41%. 
The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between 
 
men’s and women’s average earnings across an organisation. 
 
It is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. 
The average gender pay gap in the UK is 18.1% 

PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCES 

Hourly pay difference 
Bonus pay difference 

Mean 
41% 
61% 

Median 

42% 
44% 

UNDERSTANDING OUR PAY DIFFERENCE 

,) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The airline industry has traditionally been male dominated and 61 per cent  
of BA CityFlyer’s workforce is male. Pilots are our highest paid group, and when 
 
flight crew are excluded from the calculations, our pay difference drops to 26 per cent. 
 
We are confident that pay between comparable employees within grades is not 
 
influenced by gender. Our cabin crew and flight crew are on pay scales that are 
 
agreed with unions, meaning that pay between the genders is equal. 

UNDERSTANDING OUR BONUS DIFFERENCE 

The median and mean bonus pay difference is significantly influenced by 
 
pro-rata bonus payments for part-time employees. As the Government 
 
requires that the calculation is based on actual bonuses received rather 
 
than on a full-time equivalent basis, it is important to take this into 
 
account when considering the mean and median bonus numbers. 
BA CityFlyer’s bonus scheme has an eligibility criteria which is fair, 
 
with men and women having an equal opportunity to earn bonuses 
 
and commission. In the period to be reported 72 per cent of men 
 
and 88 per cent of women received a bonus. 

72% 

88% 

* as reported on 5 April 2017 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 1 

BA CITYFLYER :;b 

PAY QUARTILES 
 
The gender distribution across the four equal quartiles shows that even though 39 per cent of the 
  
BA CityFlyer workforce is made up of women, there are more men in senior roles. This is a key driver for 
 
the difference in pay and bonus gaps between men and women, as opposed to an equal pay issue. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PROPORTION OF WOMEN AND MEN IN EACH PAY QUARTILE 

30% 
M 

70% 

F 

43% 
M 

57% 

F 

79% 
M 

21% 
F 

9% 
F 

91% 
M 

Lowest quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Highest quartile 

HOW WE ARE ADDRESSING THESE DIFFERENCES 
We are committed to tackling the gender imbalance and to building a diverse and inclusive workforce. 
To do this we will be concentrating on three key areas: 
 
•  Recruitment – encouraging more women into pilot and engineering roles by working with 
local communities, ensuring our third party recruitment partners provide diverse shortlists 
and reviewing our advertising practices 

 
•  Development – building a mentoring programme to inspire women and to support their 
progression into more senior roles alongside employees of all genders and backgrounds 

 
•  Family-friendly policies – reviewing our policies and flexible working options to promote equal 

opportunities to all our colleagues 

USEFUL TERMS: 
Equal pay is when men and women performing equal work receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010. 
 
Gender pay gap refers to the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings across the organisation, 
expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. 

,) 

We confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with mandatory requirements. 

Signed 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 2 

