                             Your local recruitment experts         Sign In  |  Register  Contact Us            Toggle navigation       Find a job  Career Advice  Employers  Your Local Branch  About Brook Street  Work For Us     Blog                          Search and find a job today 1379 jobs available now      Distance   Within        Salary    Between  and          Between  and               Per Annum  Per Hour        Employment Type         Permanent      Temporary          Other         Government Jobs Only      Job Title Only              Suggested Searches      Admin Officer
                Jobs   Admin Officer - Band E
                Jobs   Sales Executive
                Jobs   Administrator
                Jobs   Meter Reader
                Jobs   Clerical/Admin Officer
                Jobs   Customer Service Advisor
                Jobs   Recruitment Consultant
                Jobs   Sales Advisor
                Jobs   Receptionist
                Jobs      About   Suppliers  Work For Us  Our Group Solutions  Corporate Social Responsibility  2017 Gender Pay Gap Report       Home 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report       2017 Gender Pay Gap Report   ManpowerGroup finds work for more than 100,000 people in the UK each year across a wide range of industries and skills across our expert family of brands –Brook Street®, Manpower®, Experis®, Right Management® and ManpowerGroup® Solutions. Achieving gender parity and creating a culture of conscious inclusion is a business priority. That’s why we take an active role with World Economic Forum to shape the future of education, gender and work, and commission research to find out what can be done to close the gender gap faster, providing organizations with actionable advice and seven practical steps that accelerate progress.  We know too that parity begins at home and there is always more we can do.  When we take an average of hourly rates across our Brook Street business, including our associates, our mean gender pay gap is -2.4% and (-5.2% when you look at the median).  When we look at bonus pay, our average gender pay gap is 0.8% (with a median of 0%).  Of course we are pleased with these results. Our leaders are continually committed to a culture of conscious inclusion , where everyone is invited in and all contributions are valued.  We’re explicit about where we want women to progress and we set clear and measureable goals for business: we already have the most diverse Board in the industry and by 2020 we’re on track for 40% of our global Executive Leadership Team and Key Leadership Team roles to be held by women. We have implemented development and sponsorship programs at all levels to nurture future leaders and help women progress. We are also rolling out training for leaders to ensure we foster an inclusive mindset when hiring, promoting and developing our people.  Achieving parity of opportunity for all and getting more women into leadership isn't just an ethical imperative. When half of the talent pool are female, it makes good business sense, achieves diversity of thought and better decision-making. This is something we have to get right, and in the UK we are committed to taking steps to make more progress to parity, including:   We treat gender parity with the same importance as any other strategic business priority, and have set a target to achieve 50% female board representation by 2022.  We now ensure all hiring into senior positions includes at least 50% women on the shortlists  We know that leadership has to own it for change to happen, and we are running development sessions for our senior leaders to adopt an inclusive mindset, as well as introducing our new ‘EQUIP’ model to help drive the mindset  We have introduced new Success Profiles which outline behaviours of conscious inclusion at every level, and are using these to hire, develop and promote against thus enabling us to drive a culture of people who value people  In our succession planning processes we are using standard criteria (including our Success Profiles) and challenging our assumptions about what makes people successful.  We have set the expectation of our UK leaders that they have 50/50 male/female succession plans  We are creating exposure opportunities for our high potential females to lead high impact, high value business projects.  We will elevate the focus on Senior Leader Sponsorships of high potential women, to provide the experience and exposure they need to succeed in senior business-critical roles      Average pay rate  Median pay rate  Average bonus  Median bonus  % males paid bonus  % females paid bonus      -2.4%  -4.0%  0.8%  0.0%  7.9%  7.7%        Lowest Quartile 1  Quartile 2  Quartile 3  Highest Quartile 4    Male %  Female %  Male %  Female %  Male %  Female %  Male %  Female %    46.1%  53.9%  40.7%  59.3%  37.3%  62.7%  37.4%  62.6%   I can confirm the data reported is accurate Damian Whitham Commercial Director                   Your Privacy | Disclaimer | Terms of business | Contact us | Accessibility | Cookies | Modern Slavery Policy  Copyright Brook Street UK Ltd 2018 ©      