This report details the gender pay gap reporting requirements covered 
under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017. The regulations require companies with more than 250 employees 
to publish information of their gender pay gap.

INTRODUCTION

Avant Homes is one of the UK’s leading privately-owned housebuilders. 
Our homes have established a reputation for innovative design and 
specification yet we are restless in discovering better ways to design  
and deliver outstanding homes. 

We are hugely ambitious and are accelerating towards our next  
significant milestone. 

Avant Homes has been named as the 46th fastest growing private  
mid-market company in The Sunday Times Grant Thornton Top Track  
250 league tables – an accolade reflective of our continued growth. 

Our people are the very core of our business and we rely on the 
commitment, dedication, skills and expertise of each and every one of 
them, employed across a diverse range of roles. 

We’re committed to creating a diverse, inclusive and meritorious work 
place where our people can express themselves and realise their 
potential supported by our firm belief that continuing personal and 
professional development goes hand in hand with high performance 
and job satisfaction. This makes business sense. However within an 
industry which has been historically male dominated we recognise we 
must improve all aspects of how we promote equality and inclusion 
from recruitment and selection, through to our approach to learning 
and development, career progression and reward and recognition. 
We will continue to invest in initiatives specifically designed to deliver 
more diversity. Times are changing – for the better – and we are fully 
committed to playing our part. 

Avant Homes operates in Scotland, North East England, Yorkshire and 
the Midlands and now employs almost 700 people. 

REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

From April 2017 all UK organisations which employ more than 250 employees are required 
to report their gender pay gap on an annual basis. In Avant there are three employing entities 
but only one (Avant Homes (England) Ltd) that is required to publish this data. 

WHAT DO WE MEAN BY 
THE GENDER PAY GAP?

The reporting of the gender pay gap is set out by the regulations as being the difference in 
hourly pay between men and women. In addition we are required to report the difference in 
annual bonus between men and women, and the proportions of men and women receiving a 
bonus. The Office of National Statistics has put the overall gender pay gap for all employees 
in the UK in 2016 at a median of 18.1%. 

The regulations require reporting on pay and bonuses as follows:

Mean Hourly Rate of Pay

Median Hourly Rate of Pay

Proportion of Males/Females within pay quartiles

Mean Bonus Pay

Median Bonus Pay

Proportion of Males/Females in receipt of bonuses

This report details the gender pay data for Avant Homes (England) Ltd which employed 411 
people at 5th April 2017. Avant Homes (England) Ltd covers our North East, Yorkshire and 
Midlands regions.

Within our report we have also included the overall figures for our entire group which 
comprises three employer entities – Avant Homes (England) Ltd, Avant Homes (Scotland) 
Ltd and Avant Homes Group Ltd. Avant Homes (Scotland) Ltd and Avant Homes Group Ltd 
employed 122 and 78 employees respectively at 5th April 2017.

(data reported on a voluntary basis)

AVANT HOMES  
– GROUP

No. of employees at snapshot date:

611

Gender Balance:

MALE

65.3% 

FEMALE

34.7%

Our Gender Pay Gap: the difference in hourly rate between men and women

MEAN20.0% MEDIAN

18.1% 

Our Gender Pay Gap: the gender distribution across four equally sized quartiles from lowest to highest

PAY QUARTILES

Lower 

Lower middle

Upper middle

Top

MALE

56.8%

64.7%

64.7%

75.7%

FEMALE

43.2%

35.3%

35.3%

24.3%

Our Gender Bonus Gap: the difference between the average bonus received by men and women

£

MEAN6.1%

MEDIAN57.6% 

Proportion of employees receiving bonus:

MALE68.2% 

FEMALE76.4%

AVANT HOMES 
(ENGLAND) LTD

No. of employees at snapshot date: 411

Gender Balance:

MALE

70% 

FEMALE

30%

Our Gender Pay Gap: the difference in hourly rate between men and women

MEAN6.9%

MEDIAN

-4.0% 

Our Gender Pay Gap: the gender distribution across four equally sized quartiles from lowest to highest

PAY QUARTILES

Lower 

Lower middle

Upper middle

Top

MALE

67.7%

75.3%

66.7%

75%

FEMALE

32.3%

24.7%

33.3%

25%

Our Gender Bonus Gap: the difference between the average bonus received by men and women

£

MEAN-8%

MEDIAN44.4% 

Proportion of employees receiving bonus:

MALE71.2% 

FEMALE78.9%

WHAT DO THE FIGURES MEAN FOR US?

We are proud to say that we reward our people based on the type of role they do and their 
performance within the role. In fact, we are passionate about rewarding performance and are 
confident that gender plays no part in the criteria we apply to pay and bonus.

When considering the figures for the whole Avant group, we are clear in our view that the pay 
and bonus gaps are as a direct result of the types of roles males and females are carrying 
out within our business.

We would like to see more females coming into our industry and believe that as this happens,  
we will then see more females rise through the ranks into senior positions.

ACCURACY STATEMENT

I confirm the gender pay data contained in this report is accurate and has been produced in 
accordance with the ACAS guidelines on managing gender pay.

Colin Lewis 
CEO

