Ringlink Services Ltd 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
Legislation  requires  all  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  to  publish  a  report  on  their 
Gender Pay Gap on an annual basis.  The first report relates to the snapshot date of 05 April 
2017. 
 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
The Gender Pay Gap is the difference between the average earnings and bonuses of all men 
and women. 
 
The figures have been reached using the mechanisms that are set out in the Gender Pay Gap 
Reporting Legislation. 
 
 
Mean & Median Pay & Bonus Gap 
 
 
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Gap 
 
 
Proportion of Employees Receiving a Bonus 
 

9.60% 
-102.40% 

8.30% 
44.00% 

Mean 

Median 

1.60% 
4.50% 

Males 
Females 
 
 
Proportion of Employees in each Pay Quartile 
 

Male  

Female 

92.50% 
83.00% 
58.50% 
42.60% 

7.50% 
17.00% 
41.50% 
57.40% 

 
Upper Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 
 
 
 
 

Underlying cause of Gender Pay Gap 
 
Ringlink Services Ltd is confident that we have equal pay however we do have a Gender Pay 
Gap.  The reasons for this are highlighted below. 
   
Ringlink Services Ltd is a Temporary Workers Agency which provides labour predominantly 
to the Agricultural Sector, which traditionally is dominated by males. 
 
Ringlink Services Ltd also provides training to many varied industries and has a Management 
Team in place to co-ordinate the organisation of  courses and tests.  Bonuses are paid to this 
team,  annually  on  Company  performance,  on  completion  of  10  years’  service  and  meeting 
targets, this accounts for the smaller proportion of Males and Females receiving bonuses.  
 
This is particularly significant this year due to 1 member of staff being eligible to receive a 
bonus  under  all  areas.  This  has  had  an  impact  on  the  Mean  Bonus  Gap,  due  to  the  staff 
member being female.   
 
Our Gender Pay Gap Median rate is 8.3% which compares very favourably with the National 
Average Rate of 18.4% 
 
Employers Actions to address Gender Pay Gap 
 
Ringlink Services  Ltd is actively promoting the  Agricultural  Industry in schools throughout 
Scotland  to  attract  Males  and  Females  into  the  sector.    They  are  also  working  closely  with 
Ringlink  (Scotland)  Ltd  on  their  Pre  Apprenticeship  Scheme  which  is  aimed  at  getting 
youngsters (Male & Female) into the Agricultural Industry. 
 
Progress is being made and we will continue to work towards narrowing the gap. 
 
Declaration 
 
I confirm that the Gender Pay Gap Data contained in this report for Ringlink Services Ltd is 
accurate  and  has  been  calculated  according  to  the  requirements  of  The  Equality  Act  2010, 
Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017.  
 
 

 

 
Graham Bruce  
Managing Director 
 

