 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 
Background 

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Brook has been at the forefront of providing wellbeing and sexual health support for young people for 
over 50 years. Our services in local communities, our education programmes, our training for 
professionals and our campaigning work means that young people are better equipped to make 
positive and healthy lifestyle choices.  

The data contained within this report represents all Brook employees in scope at the specified date of 
28 March 2017. 

Gender Pay gap reporting involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual 
employee’s data. 

We are required to publish the results on our own website and a government website. We will do this 
within one calendar year of 5 April 2018. 

We can use these results to assess: 

the levels of gender equality in our workplace 
the balance of male and female employees at different levels 

 
 
  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded. 

 
It is important to note the difference between the Gender Pay gap and Equal Pay. Equal Pay 
concerns the pay differences between men and women for doing the same or similar jobs or work of 
equal value. Gender pay is concerned with the gap between the average salaries of men and 
women in the organisation as a whole. 

 
Difference in hourly rate 

The mean hourly rate is the average hourly wage across the entire organisation so the mean gender 
pay gap is a measure of the difference between women’s mean hourly wage and men’s mean hourly 
wage. 

 

Women’s mean hourly rate is 7.4% lower than men’s 

In other words when comparing mean hourly rates, women earn 92p for every £1 that men earn. 

The median hourly rate is calculated by ranking all employees from the highest paid to the lowest 
paid, and taking the hourly wage of the person in the middle; so the median gender pay gap is the 
difference between women’s median hourly wage (the middle paid woman) and men’s median 
hourly wage (the middle paid man). 

 

Women’s median hourly rate is 2.1% lower than men’s 

In other words when comparing median hourly rates, women earn 97p for every £1 than men earn. 

 
 
 
 

 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 
Proportion of women in each pay quartile 
 
Pay quartiles are calculated by splitting all employees in an organisation into four even groups 
according to their level of pay. Looking at the proportion of women in each quartile gives an 
indication of women's representation at different levels of the organisation. 
 

 

Lower quartile 

Lower middle 

Upper middle 

Upper quartile 

quartile 

quartile 

3.2% 

96.8% 

9.6% 

90.4% 

7.2% 

92.8% 

5.6% 

94.4% 

Male 

Female 

 

Who received bonus pay? 
 
0% of men received a bonus. 
0.85% of women have received a bonus. 

It is not possible to calculate the mean and median gender pay gap given that the mean and median 
men’s bonus is 0 and only women received a bonus. 

 
Work on closing the Gender Pay Gap 
 
As part of our strategic aims (2017-20), we will continue to invest in the professional development of our 
people. This is evidenced in our policies and procedures and will continue to remain a priority for 
quality service delivery. 
Recruitment and retention of professional people to deliver our services is key to our success, in this we 
are continually seeking to improve our recruitment and selection processes and career development 
opportunities. 

We are striving to ensure that our people are able to attain a healthy balance between their home 
and working life. We have a number of flexible working initiatives, these include shared parental leave, 
term time working, part time working and we are soon to introduce purchasing additional annual 
leave and a sabbatical policy. 

Ultimately our aim is to ensure that equality remains a core value of our work in supporting young 
people and driving forward the national agenda for sexual health and wellbeing. 

 
Declaration 
 
We confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 and is accurate. 
 

Helen Marshall 

Chief Executive 

Published 4 April 2018 

 
 

