Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

This Gender Pay Gap report is required under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. The snapshot 
date for this report is 5 April 2017.

About Bloomsbury
Bloomsbury celebrated its 30th anniversary in 2016.  It 
is a successful, independent global publisher listed on the 
London Stock Exchange.  Bloomsbury seeks to develop its 
workforce so that all have a sense of, and take pride in, the 
part they play in achieving its mission to publish works 
of excellence and originality. Bloomsbury is committed to 
creating an inclusive working environment for all 
employees to encourage talented people to flourish based 
on merit, fairness and respect.

Why there is a Gender Pay Gap 
Bloomsbury’s mean gender pay gap is 23%. In common with 
much of the publishing industry, starter roles at Bloomsbury 
are primarily filled by female employees. This brings down 
the overall average hourly pay rate for women, causing a 
gap, which is also caused by three of the four statutory Plc 
Board executive directors being men. The overall proportion 
of women to men is 70:30, with a majority of women in all 
pay band quartiles.

The Executive Committee is Bloomsbury’s senior 
management forum. The heads of Bloomsbury’s publishing 
and service divisions serve on the Executive Committee. Four 
of the seven division heads are women and the majority of 
the other senior managers in the company are women.

Bloomsbury’s Pay Gap

Mean

23.3%

51.0%

Median

17.2%

46.0%

Bonus Gap
Only a small number of employees in senior roles receive a 
bonus. The bonus gap results from sales commission payments 
to a small number of men and Long Term Incentive Plan 
payments to statutory Plc board executive directors.

Male
16%

Female
8.6%

Received a bonus

Did not receive a bonus

Actions on the Gender Pay Gap
How we will develop employees – 
• We will develop our training and employee development
processes for early- and mid-career employees to provide
them with opportunities to grow their leadership and
management capabilities so that they are better equipped
to progress in their careers.

•  We will benchmark our gender pay gap against the publishing 
industry to identify best practices that can reduce the pay gap.
•   We will provide training in unconscious bias, equality and

diversity to reinforce Bloomsbury’s culture of equal
treatment of all employees.
How we will recruit employees – 
• We will focus on ensuring that the processing of job

applications during recruitment does not introduce gender
or other diversity bias.

Pay gap

Bonus gap

Lower quartile 
pay band

Upper-middle 
quartile pay band

Male 16.9%

Female 83.1%

Male 29.9%

Female 70.1%

Lower-middle 
quartile pay band

Male 32.2%

Female 67.8%

Male 41.9%

Female 58.1%

Upper quartile
pay band

I confirm that the data within this report is accurate. Michael Daykin, Group Company Secretary, Bloomsbury Publishing Plc.

