McCormick Price: $106.45 v 1.68 (1.58%) Volume: 808,156 As Of: Apr 19 2018  4:02PM Menu Our Company Businesses History & Heritage Strategy for Growth Principles Leadership Awards & Recognition Only McCormick has the right combination of people and processes, innovation and standards to assure superior flavor experiences. Innovative Solutions Flavor Forecast Research & Development With leading flavor brands, trend-trackers, research chefs, flavor technologists and sensory scientists around the globe, we are the source
		home cooks and professional chefs alike turn to for flavor and culinary inspiration. Flavors & Brands Explore The Brands Branded Flavor Solutions Custom Flavor Solutions McCormick is uniquely positioned to help make people's most important occasions more memorable with delicious and unexpected new flavors in their favorite foods. Our Commitment Diversity and Supplier Impact and Global Empowering Healthier Sustainable Download 2017 Purpose-led Since our earliest days as a company, McCormick has held strong commitment to the communities we are a part of, and the planet as a whole. News Center Flavor Media Press Explore news, photography and multimedia stories highlighting McCormick’s flavor innovations and industry leadership. Career Center Browse Career Center: Why McCORMICK Employee Development Benefits Start Your Job Search Investor Center Browse Investor Center: Stock Information Financial Information Corporate Governance News Releases Events & Presentations Analyst Information Shareholder Resources Search Close Home / Our Commitment To Diversity and Inclusion Diversity grows business.   Continue the McCormick Story  Career Center Supplier Diversity   United Kingdom (UK) Gender Pay Gap Disclosure Report  McCormick is pleased to publish its UK Gender Pay Gap Report following the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information ( www.acas.org.uk/index.aspx?articleid=5768 ) Regulations 2017. Under this legislation established in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 employees are required to publish their gender pay gap information.  Our report represents results for McCormick UK employees that work for either McCormick (UK) Ltd. or McCormick Merchandising Services Ltd.   To view the full report, click here   Innovation Comes In More Than One Flavor  We've had an inclusive approach at McCormick since we began the company in the late 1800s. Sourcing the raw materials for our spice and herb ingredients has given us the chance to work with and learn from people all over the world who share our passion for flavor.  Flavor is universal and as we've expanded around the globe we've hired and formed relationships with people from virtually every culture. We've seen for ourselves how ideas, flavors and products become more exciting, relevant and marketable when people with diverse viewpoints and experiences participate in their research and development .     Our Diversity Mission Includes Everyone  Two things are essential to meeting our business growth objectives: focusing on diversity and inclusion globally and leveraging the collective power of our employees' unique attributes, talents, experiences, perspectives and cultures.  We foster a mutually enriching environment that values the differences and dignity of all employees, enabling each of us to reach our potential and thereby create a stronger company.  The McCormick Diversity & Inclusion Council  More than a decade ago we formalized our approach to diversity by creating the McCormick Diversity & Inclusion Council. Today Lawrence Kurzius—Chairman, President and CEO—serves as executive sponsor of the Global Diversity and Inclusion Executive Steering Committee, which comprises vice presidents from McCormick divisions around the globe.  The Executive Committee sets strategy and direction. Regional councils and local committees devise action plans and implement them on the local level. All efforts help our company maintain an environment that values the differences and dignity of all our employees.  Raising Awareness, Creativity and Engagement  To further inspire a creative and inclusive spirit in our workforce, we've launched a diversity awareness training program and hosted
events with compelling guest speakers from all over the world.  Our efforts have made us a two-time winner of the James Rouse Diversity Award—named after the internationally renowned civic planner.  We've also been named to several best places to work lists, highlighting our inclusive culture.   More Opportunities to Learn, Share and Support McCormick established Employee Ambassador Groups (EAGs) to give employees who share interests and goals a forum where they can communicate, collaborate and uniquely contribute to the business.  EAGs serve as a resource to help us reach business goals while advancing our diversity and inclusion mission. They're just one more way McCormick harnesses the power of all its people to succeed and drive growth. We sponsor and are committed to the following EAGs, with more in development:   Consumer Testing Supplier Diversity Privacy Policy Legal Info Contact Us Learn About Our Brands McCormick & Company, Inc. 18 Loveton Circle Sparks, MD 21152 Contact Us Privacy Policy Legal Info Consumer Testing Price: $106.45 v 1.68 (1.58%) Volume: 808,156 As Of: Apr 19 2018  4:02PM