IBM	UK	Gender	Pay	Gap		
	The	Equality	Act	2010	(Gender	Pay	Gap	Information)	Regulations	2017	require	all	
companies	employing	250	or	more	employees	to	publish	their	gender	pay	gap	
results.		The	government	defined	gender	pay	gap	metric	measures	the	difference	between	
the	average	earnings	of	all	females	in	the	organisation	and	the	average	earnings	of	all	
males,	irrespective	of	their	seniority	or	role.		This	is	not	the	same	as	equal	pay,	which	
compares	what	men	and	women	are	being	paid	for	the	same	or	similar	work.	
	Although	our	IBM	median	gap	is	14.6%	and	is	less	than	the	national	average	(which	is	
18.4%	median	in	2017	across	all	industries),	IBM	is	committed	to	addressing	any	gender	
pay	gap	in	our	business	through	targeted	initiatives	and	specific	programmes.	
	IBM	has	a	long-standing	commitment	to	creating	an	equal	opportunity	workforce	and	
welcomes	this	legislation.	
	Having	a	gender	pay	gap	can	be	an	indicator	of	two	key	dynamics	within	an	organisation	
and	these	can	appear	either	on	their	own	or	in	combination.	These	dynamics	are	
inequitable	pay,	as	measured	against	the	"Equal	Pay"	criteria,	or	an	imbalance	in	male	
and	female	representation	across	the	levels	within	the	organisation.	For	many	years	we	
have	been	focused	on	equal	pay	and	comparing	like	for	like,	however	this	legislation	has	
shone	a	further	light	on	the	imbalance	in	male	and	female	representation	across	our	
organisational	structure.	
	IBM	has	an	equal	pay	practice	of	annual	reviews	which	analyse	and	assess	the	fairness	of	
pay	across	peer	groups	and	where	inequalities	are	identified,	appropriate	action	is	taken.	
Our	analysis,	which	looks	at	the	difference	in	salaries	at	the	same	band	by	role,	indicates	
male	and	female	salaries	are	within	1%	of	one	another,	at	the	aggregate	level.	Since	1935	
when	our	founder	Thomas	J	Watson	Snr	declared	a	policy	of	'Equal	Pay	for	Equal	Work',	
this	is	a	principle	to	which	IBM	has	remained	committed.	
	Like	many	other	organisations,	our	gap	is	a	result	of	having	a	lower	percentage	of	females	
in	senior,	higher	paid	roles.	We	are	committed	to	reducing	and	eventually	eliminating	this	
gap	over	the	coming	years.		It	is	a	strategic	focus	for	our	business	and	has	the	full	backing	
of	our	Executive	team.	Priority	actions	are	already	in	place	and	we	will	continue	to	look	
at	initiatives	to	increase	our	female	representation	in	senior	roles	and	redress	our	current	
gender	imbalance,	through	inclusion	and	opportunity,	as	well	as	investment	in	
continuous	and	tailored	learning.	
		

	

		
Increasing	Female	Representation	
Increasing	female	representation	in	senior	leadership	roles	through	hiring	and	
developing	our	future	leaders	has	been	and	will	continue	to	remain	a	key	focus.	
	In	2018	IBM	won	the	Catalyst	Award	for	our	global	efforts	to	help	advance	women	in	
business.	We	are	the	only	tech	company	to	be	honoured	this	year	and	the	first	company	
to	have	been	recognised	for	a	fourth	time.	
	The	European	Women's	Leadership	Council	(EWLC)	of	which	the	UK	is	an	active	member,	
meets	quarterly	to	discuss	initiatives	and	share	programmes	and	projects	which	benefit	
the	advancement	of	women	in	IBM.	The	council	is	actively	driving	improvement	of	female	
representation	in	executive	leadership	and	leadership	development	and	working	to	
attract,	retain	and	promote	women	in	IBM.	
	To	achieve	a	gender	balance	in	recruitment,	IBM	runs	events	designed	specifically	to	
attract	and	hire	females	from	the	STEM	subjects,	as	well	as	targeting	female	only	schools	
as	part	of	the	apprentice	programme.		We	also	raise	awareness	in	schools	of	the	exciting	
range	of	opportunities	IBM	has	to	offer,	regardless	of	background.	
		

	

Culture	of	Inclusion	

Diversity	and	inclusion	are	integral	to	IBM's	strategy	and	its	values.	Our	UK	and	Ireland	
Inclusion	Council	is	chaired	by	our	Chief	Executive,	Bill	Kelleher,	and	our	Business	
Resource	Groups,	all	of	which	have	executive	sponsorship,	have	a	mission	to	address	
unconscious	bias,	attract,	retain	and	engage	people	from	diverse	backgrounds	and	to	
establish	a	diverse	workforce	mix.	
	In	 the	 UK	 we	 have	 five	 employee	
including	
ConnectingWomen@IBM,	which	provide	opportunities	for	women	in	IBM	to	extend	their	
network,	share	experiences	and	attend	workshops,	including	shared	events	with	other	
major	IT	companies	participating	in	the	‘Connecting	Women	in	Technology’	(CWT)	
network.	Unconscious	Bias	training	has	also	has	been	rolled	out	across	our	business.	
	

led	 Business	 Resource	 Groups	

Skills	and	Development	

In	2016,	IBM	was	listed	in	The	Times	Top	50	Employers	for	Women,	in	
partnership	with	Business	in	the	Community.		The	same	year	we	were	awarded	the	
Stonewall	Star	Performer	and	included	in	the	Inclusive	Top	50	Employers	in	the	UK.	
		
Developing	new	skills	and	ensuring	all	employees	have	the	right	skills	for	the	changing	
market	is	a	business	imperative.		IBM	is	committed	to	investing	in	and	creating	an	
environment	that	offers	employees	the	opportunity	for	development	and	advancement,	
enabling	new	learning	experiences	and	career	progression	without	barriers.	
	“Your	Learning”	provides	every	IBMer	with	a	personalised	learning	environment,	
enabling	them	to	find,	undertake	and	track	their	individual	learning	from	an	extensive	
range	of	online,	self-study,	virtual	and	classroom	learning.	
	
	IBM	also	offers	world	class	learning	and	development	experiences	for	
leaders	at	all	levels	of	the	organisation	via	the	IBM	Leadership	Academy.		IBM	has	two	
key	award-winning	development	programmes	specifically	tailored	to	developing	women	
and	accelerating	their	careers	through	the	organisation;	Building	Relationship	and	
Influence	programme	and	Elevate	+,	which	was	awarded	the	European	HR	Excellence	
award	in	2017.		
		

	

Workplace	Enablement	

We	are	committed	to	providing	all	employees	with	flexible	working	choices,	helping	them	
to	achieve	greater	work	life	integration,	reduce	stress	and	enhance	productivity.		
	
	Our	flexible	working	policy	ranges	from	standard	part-time	working	to	
compressed	hours,	term-time	working,	job	share,	annualised	hours,	mobile	working	and	
working	from	home.	Aside	from	these	formal	arrangements,	employees	are	also	
encouraged	to	adopt	a	flexible	approach	to	working.		Our	flexible	working	practices	have	
received	external	recognition	including	the	Flexible/Agile	Working	Award	by	the	
Employers’	Network	for	Equality	and	Inclusion	(enei).			
	In	2018	IBM	was	a	winner	of	the	Timewise	Power	50	award	which	is	an	accolade	to	IBM’s	
commitment	to	flexible	working.		The	award	recognises	two	of	our	female	Managing	
Consultants	who	successfully	job	share	and	are	working	with	their	current	client	to	
promote	the	benefits	and	opportunities	for	flexible	working	practices.	
IBM	also	supports	its	employees	to	manage	their	care	responsibilities,	by	partnering	with	
My	Family	Care,	a	specialist	provider	of	family	friendly	employee	benefits.	
Regulations	2017.	
IBM	UK	and	Ireland	
	

	
I	confirm	IBM’s	gender	pay	calculations	are	accurate	and	meet	the	requirements	of	the	
Regulations.	We	have	followed	advice	provided	by	our	specialist	external	consultants	on	our	
methodology	and	data,	in	line	with	the	Equality	Act	2010	(Gender	Pay	Gap	Information)	

	
W	Kelleher		
Chief	Executive		

	

