Redwings Horse Sanctuary Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

As an employer of over 250 colleagues Redwings Horse Sanctuary is required to comply with government 
legislation and publish details of its gender pay gap, specifically the difference in average female earnings 
compared to average male earnings.

The data has to be gathered into four quartiles and the following information is the standard for all 
organisations to publish: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

mean gender pay gap 
median gender pay gap 
mean bonus gender pay gap *
median bonus gender pay gap *
proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment *
proportion of males and females in each quartile band

* Redwings does not pay a bonus therefore there is no data to publish.

The Gender Pay Gap data supplied is correct for all employees receiving full-pay at Redwings Horse 
Sanctuary on 5th April 2017.

Differences between men and women

  
   
   
   

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap per hour

Mean

(Average)

-5.3%

£0.49 higher

Male 
11.6%

Male 
23.2%

Median
(Middle)

0%

n/a

Male 
23.2%

Male 
20.6%

Female
88.4%

Female
76.8%

Female
76.8%

Female
79.4%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

1

Please remember that your staff newsletter is an internal document and is not for circulation to those who are not employees of Redwings Horse Sanctuary  STAFF NEWS February 2018Redwings is committed to encouraging equality of opportunity for all including pay and has fair 
systems and processes in place for pay, selection for employment, promotion, and opportunities for 
training and development.  

In order to achieve a demonstrably fair way for determining pay, Redwings uses a job evaluation 
system that is transparent, based on objective criteria and free from bias. Job Evaluation measures 
jobs not job holders. It does not measure volume of work or determine a specific pay rate within the 
range, and ensures there is no gender pay gap between male and female employees undertaking 
the same role. Employees progress within the pay range based on performance against objectives.

Redwings has set pay ranges for each role based on classification; Equine, Veterinary and Veterinary-
Related, Supporter-Related, Administrative; Night Welfare; Maintenance & Estates, Managerial and 
Professional.

Redwings’ gender pay gap is strongly influenced by the gender make-up of its employees rather than 
an equal pay issue. On the 5th April 2017 Redwings employed 284 members of staff, 229 females 
and 55 males. One-hundred-and-fifty-eight of these employees were in Equine and Supporter related 
roles. Of these 158 employees 83% were female, compared to just 17% of males in the same roles.  
These roles predominantly attract female workers where salaries fall into the lower and lower middle 
quartiles.

The mean pay gap in favour of women is influenced by the number of females in supervisory, 
managerial and senior management roles which fall in to the upper middle and upper quartiles (20% 
of females compared to 3.5% of males in similar roles).

Redwings acknowledges that whilst there is a gender pay gap in favour of females this can partly be 
attributed to a female led equine sector and the nature of the roles that account for the majority of 
its workforce. Whist Redwings will continue to be committed to equality of pay based on job and not 
gender, it faces a wider challenge to attract a more diverse workforce and will aim to appeal to both 
men and women equally through its recruitment advertising processes. 

Lynn Cutress
Chief Executive and Secretary 

2

Please remember that your staff newsletter is an internal document and is not for circulation to those who are not employees of Redwings Horse Sanctuary  STAFF NEWS February 2018