 
 
 

Human Resources 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap 
Report 

March 2017 

 

0 

 
 
 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Pay Gap legislation (developed by the Government Equalities Office) introduced in April 2017 
requires all employers of 250 or more employees to publish their gender pay gap for workers in scope 
as of 31 March 2017. 
 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly rate of pay of male and female 
employees (as set out in the regulations), expressed as a percentage of the hourly pay rate of the 
male employees. The Mean Pay Gap is the difference between average hourly earnings of male and 
female colleagues. The Median Pay Gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of 
hourly earnings. 
 
The gender pay gap should not be confused with equal pay, as they are not the same. Equal pay is 
when men and women are paid the same for like work. The gender pay gap is the difference between 
the gross hourly earnings for both men and women across an organisation, irrespective of the gender 
profile at different levels of the organisation. 
 
The figures provided in this report are based on the hourly rate of pay as at 31 March 2017 and 
bonuses (performance related pay) paid between April 2016 – March 2017. 
 
Walsall College’s approach to pay supports the fair treatment and reward of all staff irrespective of 
gender.  
 
 
Workforce Profile 
 

62.1%  
of the College’s 
workforce are 
female (410) 

37.9%  
of the College’s 
workforce are 
male (250) 

 

 
 
Walsall College’s Gender Pay Gap 
 
The College’s overall mean gender pay gap is 13.1%.  The table below outlines the mean  and 
median hourly pay difference between male and female employees. 

 

1 

Mean 
13.1% 

 
Hourly Pay 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The College’s gender pay gap is significantly lower than the National Average of 18% and we are 
confident that male and female employees are paid equally for doing the same role at the College.  
 
 
Gender Split by Pay Quartiles 
 
The  charts  below  illustrates  the  gender  distribution  across  Walsall  College  in  four  equally  sized 
quartile pay bands. 
 

Median 
18.0% 

 
Bonus Pay Gap 
 
The table below outlines the mean and median bonus pay difference between male and female 
employees.  The percentage of females and males who receive bonus pay within a 12-month period 
is 1.2%. 
 
 
 
 
Bonuses are paid in two areas of the College and refers to employees whose terms and conditions 
include performance related pay, which is based on key performance indicators being achieved.  The 
mean  and  median  bonus  pay  is  negative  due  to  the  number  of  females  who  are  part  of  the 
Performance Related Pay scheme being 75% greater than males. 
 
 
 
 

Median 
-85.4% 

Mean 
-72.9% 

 

2 

 

 
Bonus 

 

 
 
 
Why We Have a Gender Pay Gap 
 
In each quartile, females have the higher representation, which is reflective of 62.1% the workforce 
being female.  The Lower Quartile has the greatest representation of females (73%); this is due to 
the high number of females who are in administrative and learning support roles, of which 78% of 
females employed work on a part time basis.  This is significantly high when comparing against the 
overall workforce, as 34%, work part time. 
 
In the Lower Quartile, 82% of part time employees are female, which has created a gender pay gap.  
Apprentices also fall within the Lower Quartile as they are paid the Apprenticeship Minimum Wage 
rate, 75% of Apprentices are female which has also contributed to the gender pay gap.  
 
The Upper Quartile gender split is more proportional, however due to the greater proportion of males 
than females within the Senior Leadership Team a gender pay gap has been created. 
 
What We Are Doing Well 
 
Although there is a gender pay gap within Walsall College there are a number of positives, which can 
be taken from completing this exercise: 
 

•  The College’s gender pay gap (13.1%) is significantly less than the national benchmark (18%). 

 

 

•  Walsall College’s Mean Gender Pay Gap for Hourly Pay is less than the average rate within 
the  Education  Sector  (14.4%)  (Source:  People  Management  analysis  of  first  570  Gender  Pay  Gap 
Reportees) 
 

•  The pay gap is isolated to two quartiles: the Lower and Upper Mid Quartiles. 

•  Flexible working is a good thing, it provides a positive working environment and the College 
endeavours  to  support  employees  in  achieving  an  appropriate  work-life  balance.    78%  of 
females are employed on a part time basis. 

 
 
What We Aim To Improve On 
 
Walsall College are committed to reducing our gender pay gap each year and are looking at a variety 
of initiatives to achieve this, these include: 
 

•  As an employer, we want to employ the best person for the job and offer competitive rates of 

pay to attract talent.  

 

 
 

 

•  Review the number of employees who are employed on Hourly Paid Contracts of Employment. 

3 

 
 
 

•  Promote the benefits of flexible working arrangements to men, which enable them to fulfil 

their caring responsibilities, such as shared parental leave and part time working hours. 
 
Increase the number of male apprentices employed by the College. 

• 

 
 
We confirm the information published above is accurate. 
 

 
 
 

Jatinder Sharma, OBE 
Chief Executive and Principal 

 

Stephanie Thompson 
Head of Human Resources 

 
 

 

4 

