 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

2017 

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust. 

 

 

 

 

1 

About the Trust 

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust is based in the North East of England and provides 
a range of health services from the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Dunston Hill Day Hospital, QE 
Metro Riverside and Bensham Hospital. The Trust runs a range of services from Blaydon and 
Washington  Primary  Care  Centres,  as  well  as  a  specialist  unit  in  Houghton-le-Spring  for 
patients who require rehabilitation care. 

The Trust employs around 3,762 staff and currently provides 580 hospital beds. Alongside a 
full  range  of  local  hospital  services,  the  Trust  provides  breast  screening  services  for 
Gateshead, South Tyneside, Sunderland and parts of Durham – and is the North Eastern hub 
for  the  National  Bowel  Cancer  and  AAA  Screening  Programmes.  The  Trust  also  provides 
Gateshead community services working with the Gateshead Care Partnership (GCP).  

 
Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements 
 
The  gender  pay  gap  legislation  introduced  in  April  2017  requires  that  UK  employers  with  250 
employees or more publish data about their gender pay gap using six different measures: 
 

  Mean gender pay gap: the difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male 

and that of female full-pay relevant employees.  

  Median  gender  pay  gap:  the  difference  between  the  median  hourly  rate  of  pay  of 

male and that of female full-pay relevant employees  

  Mean bonus gap: the difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male and that 

paid to female relevant employees  

  Median bonus gap: the difference between the median bonus pay paid to male and 

that paid to female relevant employees  

  Bonus  proportions:  the  proportions  of  male  and  female  relevant  employees  who 

were paid bonus pay  

  Quartile pay bands: the proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees 

in the lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands. (CIPD) 

 

The  gender  pay  gap  differs  from  equal  pay  as  it  is  concerned  with  the  differences  in  the 
average pay between men and women over a period of time no matter what their role is. 
Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out the same 
or similar jobs.  

Our gender pay gap report data has been produced using a number of set reports available 
through the ESR (Electronic Staff Record) system. This is a national NHS tool for generating 
gender pay gap information and by default takes into account a large number NHS pay and 
bonus pay elements when generating reports. The guidance published by NHS Employers (in 
conjunction with Capsticks) has been utilised to guide us with our reporting.   

2 

 

Workforce data 

The legislation requires us an employer to calculate the gender pay gap using a snap shot of 
data collated on 31 March 2017 for ordinary pay and bonus pay calculations are based on a 
reference period of 12 months (1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017). 
 

What is included in the calculations:- 

  Basic pay (ordinary pay) 
  Full paid leave including annual leave, sick, maternity, paternity, adoption or 

parental leave (ordinary pay) 

  On call allowances and  shift premium payments (ordinary pay) 
  Additional programmed activities for Consultants (ordinary pay) 
  Clinical Excellence Awards for Consultants (bonus) 

What is excluded from the calculations:- 

  Any member of staff who is not receiving full pay when the ‘snap shot’ data is taken. 
For example those employees on statutory maternity pay, sick pay or parental leave.  

  Overtime pay (including Waiting List Initiatives)  
  Expenses, for example mileage for use of vehicle  
  Salary sacrifice schemes  

 

Total number of employees:  3762

Gender split 

17.60% 

Male

 

662 

 

82.40% 

Female

3100 

Pay and Bonus pay gap 
Ordinary Pay 
Bonus 
 

Mean 
30.80% 
50.48% 

 

 

 

 

Median 
17.46% 
50.94% 

3 

 

 

 

Female employees 

0.78% 

 

Male employees 

8.50% 

Paid bonus

Not paid bonus

Paid bonus

Not paid bonus

91.50% 

99.22% 

 

 

 

0.78% received a bonus 

8.50% received a bonus 

The above table shows Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust’s mean and median gender 
pay  gap  based  on  hourly  rates  of  pay  as  at  the  snapshot  date  31st  March  2017.  It  also 
captures  the  mean  and  median  difference  between  bonuses  paid  to  men  and  women  at 
Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust in the year up to 31st March 2017. 

Very  few  occupations  in  the  NHS  attract  bonus  payments  (in  Gateshead  this  is  only  the 
Consultant  body  in  relation  to  Clinical  Excellence  Awards).  Within  the  professions  that  do 
attract bonus payments, the proportions of male and female relevant employees who were 
paid bonus pay are stated above. 

 

Quartile pay bands 

Quartile pay bands: the proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the 
equally sized lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands is as follows: 

Quartile 
Upper 
Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 
Lower 

 

 
 

 

Female 
70.72% 
84.93% 
87.34% 
86.81% 

 

Male 
29.28% 
15.07% 
12.66% 
13.19% 

 

4 

Analysis of Gender Pay Gap 
 
82.4%  of  our  workforce  is  female  and  a  higher  percentage  of  female  staff  are  employed 
within the lower to upper middle quartiles compared to the upper quartile.  There are more 
male  employees  in  certain  occupations  that  fall  into  the  upper  quartile,  for  example 
consultants.  The gender split across the national landscape of the NHS is 77% female and 
23%  males  and  amongst  medical  staff  the  ratio  is  2:1  with  a  male  dominated  workforce. 
Gateshead is not dissimilar to the national picture.  

 

 

The  ordinary  pay  element  is  calculated  after  any  salary  sacrifice  deductions  are  made, 
therefore  lowering  the  actual  pay.  The  gender  split  for  such  schemes  will  therefore  affect 
the ordinary pay element.  
  
Salary Sacrifice scheme  
Payments for Nursery  
 
Childcare Vouchers 

Female 
0.8%  

Male  
0.6%  

Lease Cars 

 

94 staff   
 
9.7% 
 

27 staff  

2% 

On  analysis  the  proportion  of  female  staff  with  a  salary  sacrifice  scheme  is  marginally 
higher; notably in relation to lease cars. This may be owing to an increase in take up of cars 
by  community  based  staff  (approximately  16%)  in  a  predominantly  female  workforce.  
Therefore the salary sacrifice schemes lower the hourly rate recorded.  

Our  Upper  Quartile  (highest  paid  quartile)  has  a  higher  percentage  of  male  employees 
compared to  the  percentage  of  male  employees  in  the  other  3  quartiles.  The  gender  split 
across  the  other  three  quartiles  remains  fairly  consistent,  however  in  the  upper  quartile 
there are twice as many male employees in comparison to the other quartiles. To explore 
further  the  data  below  tell  us  that  there  are  more  male  employees  in  higher  paid  roles 
working  more  hours  than  female  employees.  This  is  consistent  when  considering  our  part 
time workforce whereby female employees are more prevalent.  

 Upper Quartile:  

Female employees  
Total number in quartile: 674 
9% Consultants 
25% Nurses 
Remainder are senior/very senior managers 
 
Hours worked: 
88% worked 84-163 units in the relevant period  
12% worked 173.8 units 

Male employees  
Total number in quartile: 279 
43% Consultants 
Remainder  are senior/very senior managers 
 
 
Hours worked: 
62% worked 104-169 units in the relevant period 
34% worked 173.8 units 
 

  
 

 

5 

Analysis of Bonus Pay Gap 

The only element classed as bonus for the purposes of this report is the Clinical Excellence 
Award  Scheme  (CEA).  The  scheme  is  intended  to  recognise  and  reward  those  consultants 
who go above and beyond in the delivery, leadership and continuous improvement of safe 
and  high  quality  care  to  patients  (the  Trust  operates  a  local  scheme,  as  well  as  some 
Consultants being part of a national scheme). 

Bonus  payments  were  made  to  86  Consultants  in  the  relevant  period;  26  Female  and  60 
Male consultants.   
 
Female employees received a total of £184,989.63 in bonus payments; an average of £7,115 
per female. Male employees received a total of £862,111.02 in bonus payments; an average 
of  £14,369  per  male.  The  difference  between  the  average  payment  made  to  male 
employees and female employees is 50.48% - our mean bonus pay gap.  
 
We know that more female consultants work part time and this may a contributing factor to 
the opportunity to demonstrate the achievements  required to receive an award. Our data 
informs us that there is a large proportion of female consultants working less than full time 
hours.  

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Gender and ‘hours worked’ split of employees receiving a bonus 2016-2017: 
 

55 

14 

12 

5 

Male

Female

Full time

Part time

 

6 

 
Action to reduce the Pay and Bonus Gap 
 
Further analysis is required to understand how we can respond to this data and close both 
the gender and bonus gap. Initial identified actions include:- 
 

Action 
Training 

Detail 
  Ensure all managers have a sound understanding of the gender pay gap 

and actions needed to address 
 

  Analyse training opportunities to ensure there are no barriers to our 

female staff to progress into higher paid roles 

 
 

Flexible 
working 

Increase all staff’s knowledge of flexible working 
  

Clinical 
Excellence 
Awards * 

  Explore opportunities to improve flexibility in higher paid roles 
 
 
 
  Work with appropriate forums to understand why more females do not 

Identify role models to raise awareness 

apply for awards 
 

  Link into appraisal process and promote positive conversation to 

encourage more female applicants  

 
  Consider positive action to support all part time applicants 
 
*NB: The Trust is aware that nationally the NHS Consultant Contract is being 
reviewed, and therefore actions in relation to Clinical Excellence Awards 
may be driven by this. 
  

Engagement    Link with our Staff Diversity forum and the wider female workforce to 

understand any gender equality issues  
 

 

 
 
 

 

7 

Statement 

I confirm that Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust is committed to the principle of 
gender pay equality and has prepared its 2017 gender pay gap results in line with 
mandatory requirements. 

Mr Ian D Renwick 

Chief Executive Officer 

 

28th March 2018 

 

Name:  
 
 
Job Title: 
 
 

Signature: 
 
 
Date:    
 

 

 

 

 

If you require a copy of this report in a different format please contact 
Workforce Department, Bensham Hospital, Gateshead, NE8 4YL  

0191 445 5428 | ghnt.hr@nhs.net 

 

 

 

8 

