 

 

Gender Pay Gap Data for Black Country Housing Group Ltd 

 
As  Black  Country  Housing  Group  employs  more  than  250  people  we  are  required  by 
Government  legislation  to  publish  details  of  our  gender  pay  gap.    This  legislation  was 
introduced in April 2017. 
 
For clarity gender pay gap and equal pay are different things. Equal pay deals with the 
pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value. Gender pay gap (GPG) shows the difference in average pay between 
all men and women in a workforce. 
 
At BCHG our pay policy is clear and transparent. Job roles are grouped into job families 
and we appoint people to roles based purely on merit. 
 
The GPG data for Black Country Housing is as follows: 
 
 
Number of colleagues in the data source 
 
Mean gender pay gap 
 
Median gender pay gap 
 
Mean bonus gender pay gap 
 
Median bonus gender pay gap 
 
Percentage of staff who receives a bonus 
 

 
261 
 
27.16% 
 
31.74% 
 
Not applicable at BCHG 
 
Not applicable at BCHG 
 
Not applicable at BCHG 

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile: 

 

 
Lower Quartile 
 
Lower Middle Quartile 
 
Upper Middle Quartile 
 
Upper Quartile 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
9% male and 91% female 
 
8% male and 92% female 
 
23% male and 77% female 
 
42% male and 58% female 

 
A Social Business Investing in 
People and Communities 

 

Summary from the Executive Team 

 
BCHG  is  both  a  social  housing  landlord  and  care  provider.  This  data  is  based  on  261 
employees of which 79% are women and 21% are men. This high split is unsurprising as 
care roles are usually occupied by women and we have 62% of our 261 staff working in 
one of our care and support services. Of those 94% are women. 
 
Both the median and mean gender pay gap results do appear high, but can be explained 
by the high proportion of women working in those care roles. 
 
Our data shows us that in the upper quartile there are 58% women and 42% men. This 
reflects positively that we have a number of women holding senior positions within the 
business. We are proud that both our Chief Executive and Chair of the Board are women 
who  demonstrate  strong  and  effective  leadership.  Our  incoming  Director  of  Finance  is 
female and currently 50% of our Executive Board are also women. 
 
We  are  committed  to  developing  talent  within  our  organisation  and  supporting  those 
colleagues  that  have  the  potential  to  grow  into  more  senior  roles.  This  year  we  will 
develop  and  deliver  a management  development  programme  to  raise  standards  across 
the  organisation  and  we  will  continue  to  encourage  participation  in  professional 
networking groups that help colleagues to develop their skills and knowledge. 
 
We understand the importance of work/life balance and support colleagues with options 
to  work  flexibly.  These  include  part-time  working,  working  from  home  or  at  other 
locations, SMART working and compressed hours. 
 
In April 2017, we reviewed the terms and conditions of colleagues working in Care and 
Support.  In  March  2018,  we  will  review  the  groups  pay  policy  to  ensure  that  our  pay 
remains fair and that job roles are appropriately grouped. Following this we will review 
the terms and conditions of our colleagues in Homeforce.  
 
Through Staff Forum we will discuss our gender pay gap and will encourage employees to 
raise any issues that they believe contribute to gender inequality. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
A Social Business Investing in 
People and Communities 

 

