     Search  Swimming  Sports  Find My Class  Membership  Class Booking     Home Quick Links Class Booking Membership Find My Class Sports Swimming Search About Us Our Story About Us PasSport Access North Lanarkshire Governance Your Contacts Meet the Team Venues and Contact Information Media Centre Jobs/Training Working at NLL Current Opportunities Training News / Events NLL Latest News Fitness Blog Events & Exhibitions Membership New For 2018 Personalised Fitness Plan NLL Venue Advertising Team Building Days NL Leisure Rewards Packages and Pricing Join NL Leisure Membership Prices Customer Guidelines Membership FAQ's Price List Corporate Membership Corporate Membership Corporate Enquiry Form Customer Guidelines Membership FAQ's Corporate Membership Organisations NLL Additional Membership Golf Membership Tennis Membership Health & Fitness Nutrition NLL Nutrition Gym Gym Overview 1 & 1 Induction Personal Training Gym Fit Fitness Classes A-Z Classes Cardio Classes Strength and Conditioning High Impact Low Impact Mind and Body Water Based Specialised Health Active Age Active Health NHS Lanarkshire Pre/Post Natal Classes Weight Management Sport NLL Sports Activities Football Pitch Hire Swimming Lessons Enquiry Ice Skating BMX Balanceability Jogscotland Development Programmes Football Coaching Education Friday Night Project Saturday Night Project Street Soccer Walking Football Coaching and Lessons Ultimate Sports Membership Football Gymnastics Swimming Tennis Athletics Badminton Dance Kids Musical Theatre Netball Golf Associated Sports Clubs Swimming Clubs Athletics Clubs Club Sport NL Venues Venues A-I Airdrie Leisure Centre Aquatec Motherwell Birkenshaw Sports Hall Broadwood Coatbridge Outdoor Sports Centre Iain Nicolson Recreation Centre Venues J-Q Janet Hamilton Centre John Smith Pool Keir Hardie Sports Centre Kilsyth Swimming Pool Kirkwood Sports Barn Lochview Family Golf Centre Palacerigg Golf Course Venues R-Z Ravenscraig Regional Sports Facility Shotts Leisure Centre Sir Matt Busby Sports Complex Time Capsule Tryst Sports Centre Wishaw Sports Centre Venue Finder Kids Activities For Kids Soft Play Kids NL / Junior Gym Birthday Parties Holiday Clubs Easter Camps May Holiday Camps Kids Clubs Overview Time Capsule Water Waterpark Opening Hours & Costs Admissions Policy Waterpark Features 25m Pool Contact Us Ice Ice Opening Hours & Costs Admissions Policy Clubs & Lessons Contact Us Life Gym Opening Hours & Costs Active Age & Silver Seniors Soft Play Contact Us      Home Quick Links Class Booking Membership Find My Class Sports Swimming Search About Us Our Story About Us PasSport Access North Lanarkshire Governance Your Contacts Meet the Team Venues and Contact Information Media Centre Jobs/Training Working at NLL Current Opportunities Training News / Events NLL Latest News Fitness Blog Events & Exhibitions Membership New For 2018 Personalised Fitness Plan NLL Venue Advertising Team Building Days NL Leisure Rewards Packages and Pricing Join NL Leisure Membership Prices Customer Guidelines Membership FAQ's Price List Corporate Membership Corporate Membership Corporate Enquiry Form Customer Guidelines Membership FAQ's Corporate Membership Organisations NLL Additional Membership Golf Membership Tennis Membership Health & Fitness Nutrition NLL Nutrition Gym Gym Overview 1 & 1 Induction Personal Training Gym Fit Fitness Classes A-Z Classes Cardio Classes Strength and Conditioning High Impact Low Impact Mind and Body Water Based Specialised Health Active Age Active Health NHS Lanarkshire Pre/Post Natal Classes Weight Management Sport NLL Sports Activities Football Pitch Hire Swimming Lessons Enquiry Ice Skating BMX Balanceability Jogscotland Development Programmes Football Coaching Education Friday Night Project Saturday Night Project Street Soccer Walking Football Coaching and Lessons Ultimate Sports Membership Football Gymnastics Swimming Tennis Athletics Badminton Dance Kids Musical Theatre Netball Golf Associated Sports Clubs Swimming Clubs Athletics Clubs Club Sport NL Venues Venues A-I Airdrie Leisure Centre Aquatec Motherwell Birkenshaw Sports Hall Broadwood Coatbridge Outdoor Sports Centre Iain Nicolson Recreation Centre Venues J-Q Janet Hamilton Centre John Smith Pool Keir Hardie Sports Centre Kilsyth Swimming Pool Kirkwood Sports Barn Lochview Family Golf Centre Palacerigg Golf Course Venues R-Z Ravenscraig Regional Sports Facility Shotts Leisure Centre Sir Matt Busby Sports Complex Time Capsule Tryst Sports Centre Wishaw Sports Centre Kids Activities For Kids Soft Play Kids NL / Junior Gym Birthday Parties Holiday Clubs Easter Camps May Holiday Camps Kids Clubs Overview Time Capsule Water Waterpark Opening Hours & Costs Admissions Policy Waterpark Features 25m Pool Contact Us Ice Ice Opening Hours & Costs Admissions Policy Clubs & Lessons Contact Us Life Gym Opening Hours & Costs Active Age & Silver Seniors Soft Play Contact Us    PERFORMANCE    PERFORMANCE      Governance North Lanarkshire Leisure Limited (NLL) is a Non-Profit Distributing Company (NPDO) registered in Scotland (SC303391). The Company is wholly owned by North Lanarkshire Council and was established on the 16th of September 2006. NLL is an entirely not-for-profit organisation; any surpluses are invested in improving facilities, services, activity programmes, staff training and other developments in line with the charitable objectives. Charitable Objectives North Lanarkshire Leisure is a Scottish Charity, regulated by the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR). NLL has the following charitable objectives:  Sport  Recreation  Advancement of health  Social Welfare  NLL works in partnership with the North Lanarkshire Council and other strategic partners to deliver and improve sport, leisure and health opportunities throughout the authority.NLL was established by North Lanarkshire Council on the 16th of September 2006 Trading Subsidiary North Lanarkshire Leisure Limited has a trading subsidiary, which is a community interest company, registered in Scotland with company number SC365792 and having its registered office at Broadwood HQ, 1 Ardgoil Drive, Cumbernauld, G68 9NE. It operates and carries out its activities under the name NLL Trading CIC and/or the NLL sub-brands. Please Click Here to view our Board and Committee Structure Chart . FIND YOUR LOCAL CENTRE Access NL is a superb membership scheme offering unlimited use of gyms, swimming pools, fitness classes and health suite. Costs A cost for providing the information you request may be incurred depending on the expense involved in locating, retrieving, collating and providing this information. Freedom of Information  There will be no charge for information requests which cost us £100 or less to process.  There may be a charge for information requests which cost us over £100 and up to £600.  We are not obliged to respond to requests which will cost us over £600 to process.  You will be advised in advance if a fee will apply.  In calculating any fees, staff time will be calculated at actual cost per staff member hour salary rate to a maximum of £15 per person per hour. We do not charge for the time taken to determine whether we hold the information requested, nor for the time it takes to decide whether the information can be released. Charges may be made for locating, retrieving and providing information to you. In the event that we decide to impose a charge we will issue you with notification of the charge (a Fees Notice) and how it has been calculated. You will have three months from the date of issue of the Fees Notice in which to decide whether to pay the charge. The information will be provided to you on payment of the charge. If you decide not to proceed with the request there will be no charge to you. To read our Freedom of Information publication scheme information click here SUBJECT ACCESS REQUEST North Lanarkshire Leisure is registered under the Data Protection Act 1998 and at all times comply with the terms of the Act when processing personal data. The DPA provides you with a right of access to any personal information about you that we hold. This right is subject to certain exceptions or exemptions. You must supply enough information for us to find the data you have requested along with proof that you are the person mentioned in the data. Requests must be in writing, or in a permanent form such as e-mail, video or audio tape and should be sent to the contact details below. Timescale You can expect to receive a response within 40 calendar days (from the date we receive your payment), though we may ask you for clarification to help us locate and retrieve the information you are interested in. Costs The charge is a standard fee of £10 plus any reproduction and postage costs.  North Lanarkshire Leisure (2017) Gender Pay Gap Report The UK Government has introduced a requirement for all employers with more than 250 employees to assess and publish information (on an annual basis) on the gender pay gap for their workforce. This information must be published on a government website and the organisation’s own website. It is important to stress that Gender Pay Gap is not the same as Equal Pay and does not make pay comparisons between individual male and female staff. Whilst both equal pay and the gender gap deal with the difference (disparity) in pay women receive in the workplace, they are two different issues: Equal pay: Means that men and women in the same employment performing equal work must receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010 . Gender pay gap: Is a measure of the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings across an organisation or the labour market. It is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. NLL is confident that it’s gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. The gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract.  In the UK economy, there is an overall gender pay gap of 17.4%.  NLL’s gender pay gap for 2017 was 6%.  NLL’s gender pay gap clearly compares favourably to national statistics, however, we are committed to monitoring and reducing the gap wherever possible, whilst also recognising that we have no direct control over the gender of applicants for particular job types or an individual’s career choices. NLL is committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity in its employment practices and is confident that males and females are paid the same rate for the job regardless of gender (or any other difference). You can view NLL’s and other organisations published information on the government website at: https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Viewing/search-results  About Us PasSport Access North Lanarkshire Governance NLL Latest News   NL Leisure - More Than Just A Gym  Here at NL Leisure, we're more than just a gym. Find out why.  Continue Reading    Broadwood - Live By The Loch  Broadwood Stadium, Cumbernauld will host our first music festival on 2nd June 2018.  This Scottish gig...  Continue Reading    Body Attack 100!  The 100th release of the hugely popular group fitness programmes is almost here, and we're celebrating with two...  Continue Reading    Follow us on Twitter Find us on Facebook Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Company Information About NL Leisure NL Leisure is a registered Scottish charity, regulated by the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR). The purpose of NL Leisure is to deliver sport, recreational, health improving and social welfare services to the community of North Lanarkshire. NL Leisure is a not for profit company (NPDO) which is limited by guarantee. NL Leisure's vision is to provide exceptional customer service and value for money experience through the provision of a range of high quality sport, recreational and health improving activities   Contact NL Leisure Headquarters 1 Ardgoil Drive, Cumbernauld, G68 9NE 01236 341968 Membership Enquiries accessnl@nlleisure.com General Enquiries queries@nlleisure.com Click here for a full list of venue details © 2018 NL Leisure. All Rights Reserved. 🔝 An Advanceworx Creative Communication.   