BEAR Scotland

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

As BEAR Scotland employs more than 250 people it is required by Gender 
Pay Gap legislation to publish details of its gender pay gap, specifically the 
difference in average female earnings compared to average male earnings.  

The data for BEAR Scotland is as follows:

Gender make-up of BEAR Scotland

8.32%

91.68%

We work in an industry that traditionally struggles to recruit women. In the UK generally, fewer women are 
entering STEM subjects which has an impact on recruitment. 

BEAR Scotland gender pay gap

Mean Pay Gap

6.8%

Median Pay Gap

0.3%

BEAR Scotland’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of other organisations, including those within 
our industry. The median hourly pay gap for all employees in the UK (full time and part time) was 18.4% in 
2017 (as per Office for National Statistics Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings). Our median figure is 0.3% 
which depicts an almost neutral gender pay gap. 

It is acknowledged by the ONS (Office for National Statistics Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings) that the 
mean gender pay gap figure can be skewed due to the distribution of higher and lower earners, and so may 
not be truly representative of average earnings. We consider this to be the position at BEAR Scotland, with 
the Median Pay Gap demonstrating a more accurate picture.

Mean Bonus 

Pay Gap

-13.1%

Median Bonus 

Pay Gap

-31%

The negative result means that female employees receive a higher mean and median bonus. The bonus pay 
gap at BEAR Scotland is impacted by the different types of bonuses awarded, as well as the distribution of 
employees within the business. For example, there is a different bonus structure for operatives compared to 
the Senior Management. 

Percentage of employees who receive a bonus

7.8%

30%

The percentage of employees receiving a bonus is impacted by the proportion of female employees within the 
business. As noted above, BEAR Scotland operates in an industry that generally struggles to recruit women.

Pay Quartiles
Lower quartile

Upper middle quartile

10.6%

89.4%

12.1%

87.9%

       

Lower middle quartile

Upper quartile

10.6%

89.4%

8.1%

91.9%

   
As noted above, BEAR Scotland operates in an industry that struggles to recruit women. The above figures 
demonstrate that there is an equal distribution of women at all levels of the business. BEAR Scotland cannot 
control who wishes to work in our industry but when a woman does choose to work for BEAR Scotland she 
is not prevented from reaching her full potential. 

Summary 

BEAR Scotland is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees 
regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment or disability. 

Our gender pay gap figures are favourable, particularly within an industry that struggles to recruit women. 
BEAR Scotland will continue to support initiatives to encourage women into our industry, and ensure that 
everyone  in  our  organisation  (regardless  of  background)  has  the  ability  to  progress  and  reach  their  full 
potential.   

Date: 4 April 2018

