What is the gender pay gap and why are we calculating it? 

Why does Camlin have a pay gap? 

The industry Camlin operates in requires highly skilled workers from a STEM               

background. However, women make up only 21% of STEM workforce (Wise Cam-

paign, 2016). Camlin's overall proportion of females to males is 16.5% which reinforces 

this point, 

Additionally, there is a higher proportion of males in senior positions and a higher pro-

portion of females in administrative roles which fall in the lower and lower middle  

The UK Government announced by April 2018 private sector organisations with 250+ 

quartile. 

employees must report their gender pay gap (GPGR). The gender pay gap shows the 

We recognise that our Gender pay gap is lower than the UK average of 18.1%       

differences between male and female employees pay.   

however, there is still a significant gap and Camlin Limited plan to address this is in a 

Camlin Limited found this exercise informative as it produced essential data to      

number of ways. 

develop an action plan that will address the gap.  

Camlin Group’s Gender Pay Gap Results 

The results below are as at 5 April 2017.  

           Mean Gender Pay Gap      Median Gender Pay Gap        Proportion of Females 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Lower Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Upper Quartile 

Male 

Female 

86% 
79% 
88% 
94% 

14% 
21% 
12% 
6% 

           Bonus Mean Pay Gap             Bonus Median Pay Gap            Bonus Proportion 

Male: 12.3% 

Female: 8.6% 

How has Camlin Limited addressed this gender pay gap so far? 

Camlin Limited hosted a STEM event introducing young females to Camlin with the 

help of our female engineers and scientists. We plan to continue initiatives such as 

these in order to support the growth of females in STEM careers. 

We continually are striving to create an environment where women are supported 

through flexible working and enhanced maternity benefits. 

Camlin Limited also frequently engage with local schools and universities. 

Action to Take 

Camlin Limited plan to take the following actions to address the Gender Pay Gap: 

• 

• 

• 

• 

Line manager recruitment training to reduce unconscious bias 

Conducting pay audits regularly 

Encouraging the progression of women by mentoring and development         

conversations with line managers 

Camlin’s Graduate Programme—’Future Innovators Programme’. This will      

encourage young females to join Camlin Limited. 

Declaration 

We confirm that our data is accurate and has been calculated in accordance with 

the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

 

