 

 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
The AA aims to ensure people are treated equally at work, across all levels and locations.  This 
includes making sure everyone has the same opportunities for reward, recognition and training. 
 
The issues of the gender pay gap and equal pay are often confused. Equal pay considers pay 
differences between individuals performing the same or similar work, whilst the gender pay gap 
compares differences in the average earnings of men and women regardless of their role or 
seniority.  
 
We aim to pay men and women the same pay for doing comparable roles.  Our reported gender pay 
results however show a gap.  This is largely because we have fewer women than men working in 
senior leadership positions and very few women working in our roadside patrol roles.  As patrol and 
senior leadership roles are generally paid more, under-representation of women in these roles 
creates a gender pay gap. 
 
At the AA, around 70% of our employees are men and around 30% are women.  We are committed 
to bringing a better gender balance to our workforce, but there is some way to go as this report 
shows.  We know it will take time and we will continue to tackle the root causes by eliminating any 
unconscious bias in our systems, processes and policies and by ensuring that we actively encourage 
women to apply for our patrol roles. 
 
We recognise the importance of the gender pay gap reporting, the transparency it brings and its role 
in driving positive change for the future. 
 
I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate. 

 
Helen Hancock 
Human Resources Director 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

The AA Gender Pay Outcomes 

All UK companies with 250 or more employees are required to publish details of their gender pay 
and bonus gap by 4 April 2018. In addition to the legal requirement, we are publishing AA Group 
figures voluntarily, which includes AA Developments Limited and AA Plc. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the mean (average) and median (mid-point) pay 
and bonus earnings of male and female employees, expressed as a percentage of male employee’s 
earnings. 

The table below presents our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay 
as at the snapshot date (5 April 2017). It also captures the mean and median differences in bonuses 
paid to men and women at the AA in the year up to 5 April 2017. 

 

Mean and median pay and bonus gap 

Gender gap 

Mean 

Median 

Pay 

AA 

Bonus 

AA 

Developments 

AA Group 

Developments 

AA Group 

Limited 

18.8% 

26.6% 

18.9% 

26.7% 

Limited 

39.6% 

0.5% 

39.6% 

0.7% 

 
We operate a variety of gender neutral bonus schemes across the organisation recognising the 
successes of individual and team performances that contribute to our overall business plans. 

 

AA Developments Limited - Proportion of employees awarded a bonus 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

AA Group - Proportion of employees awarded a bonus 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The charts below show the proportion of male and female employees in four quartile hourly rate pay 
bands, ranked from the lowest hourly rate to the highest hourly rate.  The analysis is prepared by 
dividing our employee population into four equal groups.  

 

AA Developments Limited – Proportion of employees in each pay quartile 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

AA Group - Proportion of employees in each pay quartile 

 

 

Understanding the Gap at the AA 

  Roadside Services is currently a male dominated sector.  At the AA around 70% of our employees 

are men and around 30% are women; 

  The vast majority of employees in the top two pay quartiles are patrols, who generally receive a 

pay premium to reflect their technical skills.  Men represent 99% of our patrol workforce and 
overall the patrol workforce constitutes around 43% of our employee population; 

This has a material impact on our reported gender pay gap.  For example, our median gender 
pay gap in the remainder of the organisation falls to 9.6% compared to the 26.7% reported for 
the Group as a whole; 

  Women represent 55% of our contact centre workforce, which tend to include lower paid roles;   

  Women are under-represented in higher paid roles in senior professional and executive 

positions.  Overall, women represent around 25% of this professional group.    

 

 

 

 

 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Managing the Gender Pay Gap for the future 

 
Our Executive team acknowledges the imbalance of women in more senior roles and welcomes the 
Government initiative on pay gap reporting. Simply put, it’s the right thing to do.  Our current gap is 
18.9%, driven in part, by the traditionally male dominated nature of our industry and in part, by the 
high proportion of women in more junior roles with lower earning potential.  
 
As part of our ongoing commitment to more balanced gender pay, we will: 
 

  Review and support equal development opportunities and provide flexible working 

arrangements wherever possible;   

  Continue to review our pay and reward structures to make sure gender bias doesn’t exist.  
Already, our roles are underpinned by job evaluation and transparent pay grades, but the 
report highlights the need to do more to improve equality and diversity; 

  Apply this same lens to our recruitment practices, making sure we use gender neutral 

language so as to encourage more female applications for roles across the AA, particularly in 
our patrol workforce. 

 
The findings from this report and the awareness it raises means we must continue to question and 
truly understand any barriers to equality and diversity, and take action so that we achieve a high 
performing workforce where all our employees can reach their full potential. 
 
 

 

Simon Breakwell 

Chief Executive Officer 

 

