Gender Pay Gap Report for Yeovil College April 2017 

 

Yeovil College is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 

This is it’s report for the snapshot date of 5th April 2017. 

  The mean gender pay gap for Yeovil College is 15.9%. 

  The median gender pay gap for Yeovil College is 16.5%. 

  Yeovil College does not operate any kind of bonus scheme, as such there is 

not a requirement to report on bonus payments.  

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

29%  

71% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them at or below the lower quartile 

B 

29%  

71% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the lower quartile but at or below 
the median 

C 

47% 

53% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the median but at or below the 
upper quartile 

D 

50% 

50% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the upper quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

What are the underlying causes of Yeovil College's gender pay gap? 

 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

 

the same or broadly similar work; 

  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 

  work of equal value. 

Yeovil College is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage 
or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or 
disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or 
equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). 
As such, it: 

  Utilises objective payspines to establish particular salaries for particular roles. 

  Only using recruitment difficulty supplements where the job market dictates 

the need to do so to facilitate recruitment of good and outstanding staff 
members. 

  Evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair pay 

structure. 

Yeovil College is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from 
paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its 
gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior 
roles (especially very senior roles at the top of organisations – that said Yeovil 
College bucks this trend), while women are more likely than men to be in front-line 
roles at the lower end of the organisation. Women are also more likely than men to 
have had breaks from work that have affected their career progression, for example 
to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the 
jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. 

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of Yeovil 
College’s   workforce in Band A and B, where many of the roles are filled by more 
women than men. However, there is a very much more equal balance between men 
and women in Bands C and D with 2 out of 3 senior post holders being women. 

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows 
Yeovil College’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay 
rates, with Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) 
and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). In order for there to 
be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in 
each Band. However, within Yeovil College, 71% of the employees in Band A are 

women and 29% men. The percentage of male employees increases throughout 
Bands C and D, from 47% in Band C to 50%% in Band D. 

 

How does Yeovil College's gender pay gap compare with that of other 
organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be 
able to say that Yeovil College's gap compares favourably with that of other 
organisations within our sector and our economy as a whole. 

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the November 
2016 ONS ASHE figures) is 19.2% and for the FE sector 25%. At 16.5%, Yeovil 
College's median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than that of the 
sector and the whole economy. 

 

What is Yeovil College doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While Yeovil College's gender pay gap compares favourably with that of 
organisations across the sector as well as whole UK economy, this is not a subject 
about which Yeovil College is complacent, and it is committed to doing everything 
that it can to reduce the gap.  

To date, the steps that Yeovil College has taken to promote gender diversity in all 
areas of its workforce include the following: 

  Having ‘Family Friendly’ policies and procedures in place and made known to 

all staff which encourages both male and female employees to discuss 
flexible working arrangements which will not inhibit career progression. 

  Equality and Diversity training is a mandatory part of the new staff induction 
for all staff as well as there being a requirement for all staff at the College to 
undergo refresher training every 3 years to reinforce the organisations ‘zero 
tolerance’ approach to gender bias and promotion of equal opportunity.. 

  Equality and Diversity is embedded into all study programmes and 

apprenticeship programmes as well as the tutorial programmes, promoting 
equal opportunity and dispelling gender stereotypes. 

  Rigorous over sight by the HR function at the College to ensure there is no 
gender bias in any recruitment and selection or career promotion process. 

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be 
several years before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Yeovil College is 
committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender 
pay gap and the progress that it is making. 

In the coming year, Yeovil College is also committed to: 

 

Investigating more affordable and flexible childcare options with College 
Children’s Centre. 

  Consulting with unions and staff representative groups as part of a review of 

the family friendly policies. 

  Continuing with the local school-partnerships to raise young people's 

awareness of the different career opportunities available and to help dispel 
any misperceptions and stereotypes. 

 

 

 

 

I, Steve Chattell, Director of Staff & Student Experience, confirm that the information 
in this statement is accurate. 

 

May 2nd 2017 

 

