 

 

LRH Homes Gender Pay Gap Report 

At LRH Homes, we’re committed to promoting diversity and gender equality. We offer all of our 
staff  the  same  growth  and  development  opportunities  within  a  positive,  open  and  inclusive 
environment.  

The  gender  pay  gap  looks  at  the  difference  in  the  average  earnings  received  by  male  and 
female employees, irrespective of their role or seniority.  It is therefore distinct from equal pay, 
which compares men and women carrying out equivalent work.   

LRH  Homes  overall  workforce  is  72% female  and  28%  male.  This  profile  is  the  industry  norm 
particularly  across  the  care  sector  and  there  is  nothing  to  indicate  that  it  has  any  significant 
influence over the gender pay gap. 

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing the same job.  However, the 
greater  proportion  of  men  than  women  in  our  senior  executive  positions  affects  a  gender  pay 
gap. 

Being a place where people love to work is a must. We pride ourselves on promoting a diverse 
and  inclusive  culture.  We  embrace  our  differences,  knowing  that  they  make  us  stronger  and 
reflect the needs of our customers. We know there’s work to do to close the gender pay gap. As 
a  first  step,  we’re  committed  to  developing  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  reasons  we  have  a 
gender  pay  gap,  and  where  appropriate,  defining  and  implementing  appropriate  action to  help 
us make positive changes. 

The statistics reported below are based on the data taken on 5 April 2017. 

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap 

The  mean  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  average  hourly  pay  of  men  and  women.   The 
median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly pay of men and 
women.  It takes all earnings in the sample,  lines them up in order from lowest  to highest and 
picks out the middle earnings. 

 

Gender Pay Gap 

Mean 
4.2% 

Median 

6.3% 

National Average 

18.1% 

 

 

 

 

The main reasons underlying our mean and median gender pay gaps are that there are more 
women than men in our lower paid roles and at all  leadership levels  in  LRH Homes except at 
the senior executive level where there are a greater number of men than women. Therefore the 
mean pay gap, in particular, is skewed by a small number of men on senior executive salaries. 

The median pay gap is less influenced by outliers and therefore is more representative of our workforce 
and at 6.25% is significantly below the national average of 18.10%. 

Proportion of employees receiving Bonus Payment 

Male 

26.1% 

 

Mean and Median Bonus Pay Gap 
 

Mean 

Bonus Pay Gap 

41.6% 

 

Female 

19.0% 

Median 

47.4% 

Proportion of Males and Females in Pay Quartiles 
The  number  of  males  and  females  in  each  quartile  of  their  pay  distribution  is  shown  in  Table 
below: 
Quartile 
Upper 

Female 

65.2% 

Male 

34.8% 

Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 

29.8% 
22.7% 

70.2% 
77.3% 

24.9% 

75.1% 

Lower 
 
 
Actions to balance our gender pay gap  
 
We aspire to  reduce  the  LRH  Homes gender  pay  gap  over  time  and to continue  to  be  placed 
well compared to sector and national benchmarks. We believe the LRH Homes gender pay gap 
is  not  due  to  a  pay  policy  issue  or  an  equal  pay  issue,  we  have  a  standard  approach  to  pay 
which  applies  to  all  our  jobs  and  we  use  a  robust  benchmarking  process  to  define  salaries, 
alongside a review of market rates and experience. We will focus on our recruitment and  

 

 
Learning  &  Development  practises  as  areas  where  we  can  revisit  our  current  approach  and 
consider appropriate actions and strive to set a good example by: 

  Constantly reviewing our hiring practices and the workplace environment to ensure not 
only  women, but  all  those  in  under-represented  groups  have  equal  opportunities  to 
progress. 

  Encouraging  managers  to  consider  where  possible  appropriate  flexible  working 

arrangements at all levels across the organisation, especially in managerial positions. 

  Reviewing  our  reward  processes  and  pay  structures  to  ensure  consistency  in  their 

approach and application. 

  Progression/development tactics. 

 

Arnon Rubinstein 

Director 

