 
 
 

 
Intelligent Processing Solutions Limited 
 
Blaise Pascal House | 100 Pavilion Drive | Northampton | NN4 7YP 

 

 

 
 
 

Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

As an employer we always communicate with our employees in an “open, honest and transparent” 
manner and continually strive for a diverse and inclusive culture. For that reason we welcome the 
opportunity to formally report on our gender pay gap. 

At 27.57%, our mean gender pay gap is smaller than the indicative average for the financial services 
industry, but is still higher than the UK average for all industries. Therefore, it’s important that we look 
to understand what’s driving our pay gap and what we can do to improve it. 

Pay and Bonus Gap 

Differences between men and women 

 
Hourly Fixed Pay 
Bonus Paid 

 

Mean 
27.57% 
70.96% 

Median 
14.88% 
50.00% 

The table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at 
the snapshot date of 5th April 2017. It also captures the mean and median difference between bonuses 
paid to men and women at iPSL in the year up to 5th April 2017, for the 2016 performance year. 

Gender Distribution The charts below illustrate the gender distribution at iPSL across four pay 
quartiles. 

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business. 
Our approach to pay is gender neutral by design and analysis shows our pay gap is driven by the make-
up of our workforce. 

iPSL has a significantly higher proportion of women (69%), than men (31%), in our lower graded roles, 
whilst within our senior roles the proportion favours men (68%), to women (32%). Similarly, in relation 
to bonus opportunities, these are primarily targeted to senior roles and hence are currently received in 
greater numbers by men (49.2%) than females (37.4%). 

 

 

 
 
 

 
Intelligent Processing Solutions Limited 
 
Blaise Pascal House | 100 Pavilion Drive | Northampton | NN4 7YP 

 
Proportion of Employees Awarded a Bonus for the Performance Year 2016 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

How is iPSL tackling its gender pay gap? 

The gap, in both our mean pay and mean bonus, shows there’s more work to be done and whilst we are 
confident that we don’t have an equal pay issue, we do need to take steps to reduce our pay gap. 

We are currently in the middle of our biggest ever business transformation programme which will have 
a huge impact on our future organisational headcount and management structure as we move from 
nine operational sites to just one. 

During this period we will continue to encourage women to apply for senior roles and ensure our 
succession plans support this desire. We will also reflect on the opportunities to review our reward and 
benefit strategies to support our developing and evolving culture. 

We will continue to offer flexible working options where appropriate and actively encourage women to 
return to work after maternity leave, or career breaks, as well as establish gender balanced shortlists for 
future recruitment opportunities.  

Our aim is to reduce our gender pay gap year on year and once our current transformation journey is 
complete will look to establish appropriate targets to monitor future progress. 

I confirm the data reported is accurate. 

 

Royston Hoggarth, Chief Executive 

49%51%Males who received a bonusMales who didn't receive a bonus37%63%Females who received a bonusFemales who didn't receive a bonus