2017 
Gender pay 
gap report

1.  Introduction

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

BMet is committed to being a truly diverse and inclusive organisation and strives 
to eliminate discrimination and to advance equality for all.

The college celebrates difference and aims to be recognised as a leader in diversity and inclusion by 
ensuring that its environments are Ready, Respectful and Safe for everyone, everywhere, everytime. 

Gender Pay Gap legislation requires an employer with 250 employees or more to publish its gender 
pay gap. The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings 
between women and men.

This new, legal requirement presents an opportunity for the college to further scrutinise its staff 
profile and to continue strategic action to address inequalities, if they exist.

A gender pay gap report must include:

 
 
 
 

the mean1 gap in pay 
the median2 gap in pay 
the distribution of gender by pay quartile3
the percentage of staff receiving bonuses and the gender gap on bonuses

The regulations state that any differences must be expressed as a percentage of the mean and 
median pay of male employees.

1 mean – This is the average value of the data set. By taking into account the full earnings distribution, the 
mean takes into account the low and high earners in an organisation. This is particularly useful as women are 
often over-represented at the low earning extreme and men are over-represented at the high earning extreme.

2 median – This is the middle value of the data set. By identifying the wage of the middle earner, the median 
is the best representation of the ‘typical’ gender difference.

3 This data will show the spread of male and female earners across an organisation, helping to show employers 
where women’s progress might be stalling so they can take action to support their career development.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 01

2.  Equal pay and the gender pay gap

 

 

Equal pay and the gender pay gap are different, and should not be confused. Equal pay means that 
by law men and women must receive equal pay for the same or broadly similar work or for work of 
equal value. 

The gender pay gap is the difference between the gross hourly earnings for both men and women 
across an organisation, irrespective of the roles they undertake.

3.  The gender pay gap at BMet
 

Figures are drawn from 1216 staff who qualify as ‘full pay relevant employees’ on the snapshot date 
of 31st March 2017.4

 

 
 

 
 

712 are female (59%) and 504 are male (41%).

The mean gender pay gap is 5.4%
The median gender pay gap is 13.9%

Mean gender 
pay gap

5.41%

Median gender 
pay gap

13.92%

£19.61

£16.88

£17.73

£16.77

Percentage of men and women in the 4 pay band quartiles
Q1
Lower

Q2
Lower Middle

Q3
Upper Middle

Q4
Upper

Bonuses

35.9%

64.1%

34.5%

65.5%

50.3%

49.7%

43.1%

56.9%

0%

0%

 

4 The figures have been calculated using the standard methodologies specified in the Equality Act 2010  
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017. BMet’s full pay relevant employees include salaried 
and hourly paid staff. The regulations recognise that organisations may have non-binary employees who do not 
identify as either male or female. Supporting guidance advises that employers can omit these staff from their 
calculation. The college has based its report on the gender identification held within HR systems. All employees 
have self-identified as either male or female.

02

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

3.1 Bonus 
 

The regulations require organisations to report on the proportion of male and female employees 
receiving a bonus, and the gap across gender in these payments. 

 

BMet does not operate bonus schemes or payments for any staff so reporting requirements here are 
not applicable to the college.

4.  Supporting commentary and college practice
 

The college’s gender pay gap is 4.2 % below the overall national figure of 18.1%. This position has 
been helped by existing college practice. The college:

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

is committed to paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work regardless of gender
has a transparent and accessible policy on pay
deploys pay scales and grades, informed by the Association of Colleges for each of the three core 
areas of its workforce:

- Teaching staff
- Non-curriculum staff
- Management staff

actively evaluates roles to determine their position within pay scales 
links progression through pay grades to performance
has removed the former ‘Threshold’ process used to secure a place within the top three points of the 
teaching scale to increase access to the top earnings in this scale
supports women and men returning to work through flexible working, reduced hours and/or term time 
working patterns
operates a future focussed performance development process which includes career conversations 
drives its cultural change programme through a diversity and inclusion strategy and supporting action 
plan

The college recognises that it is not immune to societal and systemic trends where more women 
work in lower paid jobs. Women are, for example, more likely than men to have had breaks from 
work which affect their career progression and are more likely to work part-time because of caring 
responsibilities.

Linked to this position, our analysis shows a disproportionate percentage of female members of staff 
are found in the ‘lower’ and ‘lower middle quartiles’ (64% and 66%% respectively) which is the 
primary driver of the gender pay gap. 

These quartiles see a much higher proportion of administrative and part-time posts. The ‘lower 
quartile’ has 137 (out of 304) administrative posts and 156 part-time posts. 77% of the 
administrative roles (105/137) and 72% of the part-time roles (112/156) are held by females. 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 03

 

 

 

 

In the lower middle quartile there are 64 (out of 304 ) administrative posts and 85  
part-time posts. 78% (50/64) of the administrative roles and 82% (70/85) of the part-time roles are 
held by females.

This pattern sees a significant spike towards the lower end in the distribution profile of female pay 
having directly impacted the median gender pay gap calculation.

Conversely, over half of ‘upper’ (57%) and 50% of ‘upper-middle’ pay quartiles are female members  
of staff. 

This is reflective of the higher proportion of females in the workforce (59%) than male (41%).

 
5.   Future action 
 

The college is committed to continually improving its practice and to reducing the gender pay gap, 
through tangible and sustained actions. 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Future commitments include:

  Further scrutiny of each of the main components of the workforce (teaching, non-curriculum and 

management) to establish where the biggest differences lie

  Analysis of recruitment, retention and progression at different levels and roles
  Further embedding of the new performance development process to ensure that career conversations 

take place

  The continuation of skills development across the workforce in diversity and inclusion practice 

including unconscious bias

  Policy review and development to include rigorous equality impact assessment

I can confirm that the information in this statement is accurate and that the data has been calculated 
to the requirements of the Equality Act.

February 2018

04

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 05

BMet Jennens Road, Birmingham B4 7PS
0121 446 4545   ask@bmet.ac.uk   www.bmet.ac.uk

