McDonald’s restaurants Limited 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Foreword | 01

ForeworD

from Paul Pomroy, UK Chief Executive Officer 
and Harriet Hounsell, UK Chief People Officer

At McDonald’s, a commitment to diversity and inclusion sits at the very 
heart of our business. Our people make McDonald’s what it is. They are  
a fundamental part of our success, which is why we have worked hard for 
more than four decades in the UK to create jobs and opportunities that work 
for our people, irrespective of gender, age or life stage. 

Today, our workforce is almost equal parts men and women. We welcome greater 
transparency on gender pay and are pleased to report that our own figures are significantly 
below the national average. The proportion of women in senior leadership roles across our 
business is also 28 per cent higher than it was ten years ago. But we know there is still work 
to be done.

Real progress will require a concerted effort by all organisations across all sectors. This is 
not about statistical improvements in the short-term, but about sustainable change in the 
long-term. For McDonald’s, that means delivering a programme of support and initiatives 
that address the barriers women face in the workplace, challenge underlying societal norms 
and genuinely help to reduce the gap. 

Paul Pomroy, 
UK CEO 

Harriet Hounsell, 
UK CPO

Understanding gender pay | 02

How we calculate 
the median Difference
MEDIAN PAY 
LOWEST PAY 
PER HOUR
PER HOUR

HIGHEST PAY 

PER HOUR

DIFFERENCE = MEDIAN HOURLY PAY GAP

LOWEST PAY 
PER HOUR

MEDIAN PAY 
PER HOUR

HIGHEST PAY 

PER HOUR

How we calculate 
the mean Difference

NUMBER OF 

MALE 

EMPLOYEES

= MEAN MALE AVERAGE PAY

NUMBER OF 

FEMALE 

EMPLOYEES

= MEAN FEMALE AVERAGE PAY

DIFFERENCE = MEAN HOURLY PAY GAP

Understanding Gender 
Pay Gap reporting 

In April last year, the government introduced 
gender pay gap reporting for employers with 
250 or more staff. All companies that fit this 
description are now required to share information 
about their gender pay gap each year, including 
ordinary pay and bonus pay, and as both a median 
and a mean figure.

The gender pay gap measures the difference in 
men and women’s average pay across an entire 
organisation. This is different to equal pay, which 

looks at what women and men are paid for the 
same job, similar jobs or jobs of equal value.

The first deadline for private sector gender pay gap 
reporting is 4th April 2018 when employers will be 
required to share calculations based on data from 
April 2017 or, in the case of bonus pay data, the 12 
months ending 5th April 2017. 

EY has provided independent assurance over the six 
statutory disclosures mandated by the Gender Pay 
Gap Regulations for McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd.

McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd. 

McDonald’s has been a part of the UK for almost 
45 years. Today, we have more than 1,270 
restaurants across the country that are owned 
and operated by either us or our franchisees, 
creating jobs and opportunities for people, 
whatever their experience or background.

There are three component parts to our UK 
business: our UK head offices, our 320 company-
owned restaurants, and our franchised restaurant 
estate. Here in the UK, around 79 per cent of 
our restaurants are owned and operated by 
franchisees, local businessmen and women who 
have a considerable amount of their own money 

invested, employ local people and invest in their 
communities. As independent employers, our 
franchisees will each publish individual gender 
pay figures as required by government. 

This report provides figures for McDonald’s  
Restaurants Ltd. which covers the first two 
components: McDonald’s company-owned 
restaurants and UK head offices. Together these 
represent a workforce of 35,543, which includes 
just over 700 people employed in head office 
roles. We offer a wide range of jobs, from our 
restaurant crew and managers, through to roles 
in our marketing, operations and HR functions.  

AROUND 

79%

 OF OUR RESTAURANTS ARE OWNED 
AND OPERATED BY FRANCHISEES

OUR FRANCHISEES WILL EACH 
PUBLISH INDIVIDUAL GENDER 
PAY FIGURES AS REQUIRED 
BY GOVERNMENT 

TODAY, WE HAVE MORE THAN 
1,270 restaurants 

ACROSS THE COUNTRY

A PART OF THE UK 
FOR ALMOST 

45 years

There are three 
component parts:

OUR UK HEAD OFFICES

OUR 320 COMPANY-OWNED 
RESTAURANTS

OUR FRANCHISED 
RESTAURANT ESTATE

MCDONALD’S RESTAURANTS LTD.
MCDONALD’S COMPANY-OWNED 
RESTAURANTS AND UK HEAD OFFICES

REPRESENT A WORKFORCE OF 

35,543 

WHICH INCLUDES JUST OVER

700 people

EMPLOYED IN HEAD OFFICE ROLES

Our report 

Pay gap At McDonald’s 
Restaurants Ltd.

0%

median

4%

mean

pay gap in our Restaurants

0%

median

0%

mean

Uk NAtional average pay gap*

18.4%

17.4%

median

mean

Bonus PAy gap at mcdonald’s 
Restaurants LTD.

7%

median

57%

mean

At McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd. we have  
a median pay gap of 0 per cent and a mean pay 
gap of 4 per cent.

The median is the middle number in a set of 
figures. To illustrate, if you were to line up all our 
female employees in order of how much they are 
paid, from lowest to the highest, and do the same 
with our male employees, the man and woman 
in the middle of each line would be paid exactly 
the same. 

The mean is the average of a set of figures. For 
example, if you were to calculate the average pay 
for men across our business, it would be 4 per cent 
higher than the average pay for women. This 
is significantly below the national average 
of 17.4 per cent.

These figures are even lower in our restaurants, 
where the median pay gap is 0 per cent and the 
mean pay gap is 0 per cent. 

Our restaurant teams are the heart of our business. 
We employ parents, students and older workers, 
irrespective of background, and we provide flexible 
working and family friendly policies to help them 
work around childcare and other commitments. 
A decade ago we pioneered the friends and family 
contract which means family members or friends 
working in the same restaurant can swap shifts 
without giving prior notice. Today, our business is 
almost equal parts men and women (48 per cent 
men to 52 per cent women).

*ONS Data 2017

We employ

52%

woMen

48%

Men

bonus received

54%

0f Men

53%

of woMen

Our report | 03

As well as looking at hourly pay, companies are 
being asked to share data on the number of men 
and women who receive a bonus and the median 
and mean bonus pay gap.

There are a number of bonus schemes at 
McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd. including two for 
our restaurant staff. Each month we measure our 
company-owned restaurants based on customer 
feedback, of which the top 10 per cent award 
their employees with 50p for each hour they 
have worked in a two-week period. In addition,  
all restaurant managers are eligible for  
a quarterly bonus based on customer experience, 
sales growth and profitability.

In our head offices, we award bonuses to managers 
based on a combination of individual and 
company performance. Our senior leadership 
(heads of department and above) are also 
eligible to receive share options and shares from 
McDonald’s Corporation for strong performance 
and potential as part of the Long-term Incentive 
scheme of McDonald’s Corporation.

The proportion of men and women in our business 
receiving a bonus is almost the same – 54 per cent 
of men receive a bonus compared to 53 per cent 
of women. We have a median bonus gap of 7 per 
cent and a mean bonus gap of 57 per cent.

This mean bonus gap is partly due to the make-up of 
our head office management team which has 63 
per cent men and 37 per cent women. Our senior 
managers and leaders are paid performance-
related bonuses, and the higher proportion of men 
at this level has an impact on the overall bonus 
pay gap. We know we have work to do to close 
this gap and we are committed to helping more 
women into senior management roles.

Our commitment to closing the gap

At McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd. we are committed to inclusion, diversity and providing 
opportunities for everyone. From kitchen to counter to head office, our success would 
not be possible without the hard work of our people, which is why it is so important we 
invest in and nurture them.

We’ve been working hard to develop our female talent and leadership since 2005, 
and have been longstanding members of Inclusive Employers and the BITC Gender 
Campaign. In that time, we have increased the proportion of women in senior 
leadership roles from just 5 per cent in 2005 to 33 per cent today. In just the last six 
months, the number of women in senior roles has increased by 7 per cent at director 
and 14 per cent at senior manager level. 

Now we want to go even further. We are committed to closing the gender pay gap 
by delivering a range of initiatives to improve how we recruit and develop female 
talent. By the end of 2020, we want to increase the number of women in head office 
management positions from 37 per cent to 45 per cent.

For us this is not about short-term statistical gains, it is about making sustainable, 
long-term change across our business to address the barriers women face in the 
workplace and challenge underlying societal norms. 

Here are the actions we are taking to achieve that goal.

  we have increased the proportion of women in senior 

leadership roles from just 5 per cent in 2005 to 33 
per cent today. In just the last six months, the number 
of women in senior roles has increased by 7 per cent 
at director and 14 per cent at senior manager level. 

Our commitment to closing the gap | 04

Rolling out unconscious bias training across our business
Unconscious bias forms part of our shift manager training programme in restaurants and we also have 
training materials readily available on our employee intranet. In 2018 we will take this a step further  
by beginning the rollout of unconscious bias training for managers across our business. These workshops 
will help managers to understand their own unconscious biases and the impact these may have  
in the workplace. 

Offering an enhanced maternity package 
We have introduced a suite of policies to ensure that mothers who choose to return to work have  
a flexible schedule that works for them and their families. This includes mentoring for women in our  
head office before, during and after their maternity leave to retain talent in our business. In addition,  
we have enhanced our company maternity pay. The period during which employees receive their full 
salary has increased from eight weeks to 13, and we have opened the scheme to salaried employees  
that have worked for us for at least a year. 

Continuing our Women’s Leadership Development Programme
Our Women’s Leadership Development Programme will continue to develop female talent across all 
parts of the business and create a strong leadership pipeline for the future. Over the course of six months, 
participants take part in a series of sessions and workshops specially designed to build the confidence and 
skills they need to be future leaders of the business. More than 80 women have have had the opportunity 
to be a part of this programme over the last eight years, and 43 per cent of those who remain with  
the business have been promoted since graduating.

Developing networking and mentoring opportunities
We carried out research with female employees to understand what we can do as a business to create 
a culture where women can succeed. They told us they valued access to mentoring and visible role  
models earlier in their careers. That is why we are encouraging our senior leaders, irrespective of their 
gender, to sponsor and mentor female employees across our restaurants and head offices. In addition,  
we are evolving our Women’s Leadership Network to provide female employees with support, advice  
and inspiration.

Statutory Disclosures - McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd.

Statutory disclosures | 05

Median gender pay gap

Mean gender pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

% males/females receiving a bonus payment

Upper quartile (male/female %)

Upper middle quartile (male/female %)

Lower middle quartile (male/female %)

Lower quartile (male/female %)

0%

4%

7%

57%

54/53%

53/47%

47/53%

49/51%

48/52%

Declaration
We confirm the information and data reported is accurate 
as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017

McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd. UK workforce
% male/female employees = 48/52%

McDonald’s Restaurants LTD.

11/59 High Road 
East Finchley 
London 
N2 8AW 
United Kingdom

T: +44 (0) 370 524 4622

www.mcdonalds.co.uk

Registered in England and Wales 
Company No: 01002769

EY has provided independent assurance  
(which is outlined here) over the six statutory 
disclosures mandated by the Gender Pay Gap 
Regulations for McDonald’s Restaurants Ltd.

