Open University of the Arts London Skip to main content. Courses Find a course at UAL Course finder All levels Foundation Undergraduate Postgraduate Short Courses All subjects 3D design and product design Accessories, footwear and jewellery Animation, interactive, film and sound Architecture and spatial design Business & management, and science Communication and graphic design Curation and culture Fashion design Fine art Illustration Journalism, PR, media and publishing Photography Textiles and materials Theatre, screen and performance design Search Or View all courses Colleges UAL's six colleges Camberwell College of Arts Central Saint Martins (CSM) Chelsea College of Arts London College of Communication (LCC) London College of Fashion (LCF) Wimbledon College of Arts Search Site search Search Close Site search Search Study Study at UAL Courses A-Z Foundation & Preparation Courses Undergraduate Study Postgraduate Study Short Courses International Study Abroad Erasmus & Non-Erasmus Exchanges Language Centre Open Days Apply Enrol Student Fees & Funding Student Services Library Services Term Dates Academic Regulations Accommodation Students' Union Facilities Graduation Summer Shows EU Referendum Information Research Research Research Degrees UAL Staff Researchers Current Research & Projects UAL Research Centres Impact of UAL Research Researching at UAL Research News & Events UAL: University Chairs Careers Student Jobs & Careers Find Jobs & Internships Get Jobs Advice Events & Workshops Funding & Mentoring Freelance & Business Advice Exhibit & Sell Your Work Employers & Partners About Careers & Employability Alumni & Friends Alumni & Friends Benefits Alumni Groups Volunteering Opportunities Events Inspiring Alumni Support & Donate Update Details Business Business Our Student & Graduate Talent Consultancy & Commissions Sponsorship & Partnerships Innovation & Research Training & Development Venue Hire & Conferences About UAL About UAL Contact UAL UAL Jobs Strategy & Governance Events UAL Awarding Body News Press Office not just a shop Collections & Galleries Teaching & Learning Diversity Information for Schools & Colleges Environment & Sustainability Support Our Creative Future Outreach Brexit Information UAL & Europe Students Students The Big Welcome Portfolio Feedback & Change Help & Support Academic Resources Library Services University IT Services Health & Safety for Students UAL Previous About UAL Diversity Equality Objectives and Reports In this section Why We Need Equality Information Equality Objectives and Reports We’re committed to ensuring we achieve equality, diversity and inclusion for our staff and students. We have a set of objectives to help us do this, in line with the requirements set out by the Equality Act 2010. UAL's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion objectives for 2015-18: 1. Narrow differentials in participation, continuation and attainment of black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) students. 2. Improve the representation of staff from BAME backgrounds, particularly in academic and senior roles. 3. Ensure that where required, workplace adjustments for disabled staff are implemented within eight weeks. Our obligation under the Public Sector Equality Duty (PSED) is to: 1. End unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other conduct prohibited by the Equality Act 2010. 2. Foster good relations between people from different groups. This involves tackling prejudice and promoting understanding between people from different groups. 3. Advance equality of opportunity between people from different groups. This involves considering the need to: remove or minimise disadvantages suffered by people due to their protected characteristics. These characteristics are defined in the Equality Act 2010 as: age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and paternity, race, religion and belief, sex, and sexual orientation. meet the needs of people with protected characteristics. encourage people with protected characteristics to take part in public life, and in other activities where their participation is low. Our specific PSED duties: 1. Publish equality information 2. Prepare and publish equality objectives 3. Publish accessible equality information and objectives Gender Pay Reporting Gender pay gap reporting is required under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 for ‘specified public authorities’.  Reporting regarding UAL’s gender pay gap for workers in scope of the regulations as of 31 March 2017, can be found on the government website . Further information and commentary on the results can be found in the ‌ UAL Gender pay gap report March 2017 (PDF 337KB) ‌ Read our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion reports‌ UAL Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Report 2017 (Students) (PDF 5MB) UAL Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Report 2016 (PDF 4.6MB) ‌ UAL Equality and Diversity Progress Report 2015 (PDF 1.78 KB) UAL Equality and Diversity Progress Report 2014 (PDF 1.1MB) Contact us For large print, audio or Braille versions of the equality information and PSED objectives mentioned, please contact the Diversity Team: diversity@arts.ac.uk +44 (0)20 7514 9864 Equal Opportunities Policy UAL Equal Opportunities Policy 2016 (Word 58KB) For more information on the Equality Act and its implications for HEIs, please visit the Equality Challenge Website . Back to top Connect with UAL: UAL Prospectus 2018/19 View now Privacy & Cookies Disclaimer Site Map Feedback Contact UAL UAL Jobs Donate to UAL Charitable Status Freedom of Information Sign up to UAL Edit Anti-Slavery Statement Canvas Students' Union University IT Services © 2018 University of the Arts London. All Rights Reserved. Less More . . . ↓ Open Debug panel Current Page URL: /about-ual/diversity/equality-objectives-and-reports/ Current Breadcrumb: About UAL Diversity Equality Objectives and Reports Channel base uri: / Channel base description: This channel is used to publish the UAL website. Channel base id: 18 Channel base name: UAL Website Page modified : Thu 8 Mar 2018 12:27:50 Section id : 69544