Gender Pay Gap Report
March 2018

CDC is the UK’s development finance institution. 
Our mission is to support the building of businesses 
throughout Africa and South Asia, to create jobs and 
make a lasting difference to people’s lives in some of the 
world’s poorest places. Through our investments we 
look to deliver on the UN’s Global Goals, which include 
improving gender equality. 

A growing body of research confirms the benefits of diversity to an organisation, from better 
decision-making and governance and the avoidance of ‘group-think’, to an improved ability to 
innovate. At CDC we recognise the immense value of diversity in its broadest terms: gender, 
ethnicity, age, background, education, thinking styles, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, gender 
identity, ability and technical skills. 

Our vision is to be an organisation that recruits, retains and develops the very best people in an 
environment that values and celebrates diversity. We need to be able to cast our net as widely as 
possible so that, in all our teams and at all levels, our employee population reflects the make-up of 
society and the regions in which we invest. To do this we aim to be an organisation whose policies 
and processes are without bias and our plans are designed to improve diversity of all types in our 
teams. Ultimately, we seek a culture of inclusivity and diversity as the foundation of strength to 
support the execution of our mission.

Building a more inclusive and diverse CDC

In this report we present our gender pay gap, which shows the scale of the challenge before us. 
We are committed to closing our pay gap and to improving gender diversity and to underline 
our commitment, we have chosen to publish our gender pay gap ahead of the requirement to 
do so, as CDC had fewer than 250 employees at the time of measurement on 5 April 2017. 
We confirm that our calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the Regulations. 
Along with our data, we give details of our plans to improve these figures year by year.

As part of our mission, we work with the companies we invest in to develop gender strategies 
and to improve gender diversity in workforce participation. Alongside our efforts to improve 
gender diversity within CDC, we will share our goals, insights, strategies and plans with our 
investment teams and our investee companies to help bring about positive change within 
CDC and beyond. 

Clearly there is much work to be done, but we are determined to meet the challenge. We will 
pursue opportunities to bring about the sustainable change that will enable us to realise the 
benefits of a truly diverse and inclusive organisation. As well as continuing to report on our 
progress in addressing CDC’s gender pay gap, we will share our progress on diversity more 
broadly as we strive to build a more inclusive and dynamic organisation.

Nick O’Donohoe
Chief Executive Officer

Laurie Spengler 
Non-executive Director and Chair
People and Remuneration Committee

Understanding the difference between equal pay and the 
gender pay gap
Equal pay means that men and women in the same employment performing the same jobs, similar 
jobs or work of equal value receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010. It is unlawful to pay 
people unequally because they are male or female. 

The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between men’s and women’s average pay in an 
organisation. If an organisation has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can indicate there may 
be a number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations may help to identify what those 
issues are.

Our results
Our gender pay gap results 
Mean average salary gap
Median average salary gap
Mean average bonus (LTDPP at CDC1) gap
Median average bonus gap
Proportion of men receiving a bonus
Proportion of women receiving a bonus

29%
33%
25%
32%
25%
13%

The proportion of men and women in quartiles by salary from low (Quartile 1) 
to high (Quartile 4) 

Pay bands 
Quartile 4 
Quartile 3 
Quartile 2
Quartile 1

Male
75%
54%
47%
23%

Female

25%
46%
53%
77%

Why does CDC have a gender pay gap?
CDC’s mean average gender pay gap is 29 per cent. This means that the average salary for all men at 
CDC is 29 per cent higher than the average salary for all women. There are two drivers of our pay gap. 
One is the disproportionate number of men at director level and above with commensurately higher 
salaries - in particular in our investment teams, which have traditionally been very male dominated. 
The second is the disproportionately high number of women in administrative roles in the lower 
salary bands. The lack of representation of women in our senior ranks is the core concern for us as 
an organisation and the rest of this report addresses how we plan to respond to that. In respect of 
the relative pay of men and women, CDC operates a rigorous, structured remuneration framework 
agreed with DFID and overseen by the Board. Staff levels are regularly assessed and calibrated to 
help ensure that we avoid issues about unequal pay.

1CDC does not operate an annual bonus scheme, but some employees are eligible for a long-term development performance plan award. This award is linked 
to the development outcome and performance of CDC’s portfolio. It is determined by tenure and capped relative to an individual’s salary. More information 
can be found in our Annual Accounts on cdcgroup.com

Our plan to address the gender pay gap at CDC
Aside from establishing our baseline data, over the past year we have begun to review and improve 
our policies, connect with external networking organisations and initiate internal dialogue to assess 
the range of issues requiring attention. 

Our plan for 2018 falls into three areas of focus: 

1  The first is ensuring that work to redress the gender balance is a top priority for leaders. 
2  The second is creating an environment in which everyone can take part in the conversation about 
3  The third is the hardest: pinpointing specific issues which might be holding women and other 

diversity – gender and other aspects – and that there is energy and activity behind the project. 

under-represented groups back and designing specific critical interventions to address them.

1. A top priority for leaders
Our Executive Committee has agreed a target of at least 30 per cent of senior management roles – 
of director level and above – to be filled by women within the next five years. Compared with 
19 per cent currently, this is stretching - especially given the broad under-representation of women 
in senior levels of the industry and the difficulties of finding specific experience. However, we 
are committed to communicating and reporting against this target, recognising that it might be 
challenging to achieve. We will monitor our statistics and periodically report on progress against our 
target to the Executive Committee, to the Board’s People and Remuneration Committee and to our 
employees. We are planning to sign up to HM Treasury’s Women in Finance Charter this year.

2. An environment where everyone can take part
Within CDC, we will engage with women at all levels to discuss and devise our action plan, as well 
as engage with external experts and networks who can accelerate our learning. We will build a 
culture of open and honest discussion that celebrates difference, educating those with responsibility 
for managing and hiring on unconscious bias and ways to mitigate it; increasing our emphasis on 
inclusive behaviours in leaders and managers, and on career development for everyone. We will use 
our annual staff survey, as well as regular internal meetings, to seek feedback from colleagues as we 
assess improvement. 

3. Pinpointing and addressing specific issues
We will analyse our data to pinpoint areas where there are specific obstacles to overcome, for example 
within our promotion and recruitment processes. 

 

 

  Promotion
A company that can demonstrate progression into senior leadership for all women is likely to 
attract ambitious, capable women thereby increasing its recruitment talent pool. We are pleased 
that, below director level, there is an equal gender balance at associate, executive and manager 
levels at CDC. This shows there is a pipeline of female talent which, as our organisation matures, 
should help bring on more female directors in coming years. We will continue to monitor the ratio 
of our cohorts as they progress upwards through the organisation. Over time we aim to redress the 
pyramid tendency - where fewer and fewer women are promoted - by working towards improved 
proportionality in promotions to ensure that both genders are promoted from lower to higher 
grades in roughly the same proportions to that which they are represented in the lower grade.

  Recruitment
When recruiting, we will require search firms to provide gender-balanced shortlists and we 
will redesign our recruitment processes to ensure diverse interview panels and feedback in a 
consistent and structured format. We will interview senior female candidates who approach 
us speculatively, whether or not we have an open role, to build a network of suitably qualified 
female applicants. We will also train our recruiters, interviewers and leaders in unconscious 
bias and develop a de-biasing checklist for recruitment. As part of this effort, we will challenge 
familiar notions of where and how relevant talent is identified, nurtured and strengthened. 
The focus will be more on capabilities than on credentials to be sure that we assess individuals 
based on talent and potential.

CDC Group plc
123 Victoria Street
London SW1E 6DE
United Kingdom
T +44 (0)20 7963 4700
E enquiries@cdcgroup.com

cdcgroup.com

CDC is wholly owned
by the UK Government

 cdcgroup.com 

 

 @CDCgroup 

