 

4th April 2018 

 

 

Talbot Underwriting Ltd 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Statement 

 

At Talbot Underwriting Ltd (Talbot) we are committed to an inclusive, fair and respectful workplace. 
That commitment includes being transparent about our gender pay gap.  

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business.  
However, Talbot will continue  to ensure our policies and processes are fair to all employees.  This 
includes an annual review of our remuneration policy by our Remuneration Committee.    We employ 
tools and practices that enable us to benchmark our total remuneration objectively against our chosen 
markets/peer group to ensure that our package is fair and competitive in the market. 

We  work  hard  to  develop,  recognise  and  reward  the  contribution  of  all  our  employees.    In  this 
competitive market for talent, we strive to attract highly motivated people, keep them engaged and 
help them achieve their career aspirations.  

We strongly believe both a stimulating work environment and consideration of the “whole” employee 
inspires  our  workforce.    Talbot  has  benefits  and  policies  in  place  for  employees  that  protect  their 
family, encourage an appropriate work life balance and provide opportunities to give back to their 
community. 

We appoint people to roles based entirely on merit and regardless of age, race, gender, marital status, 
sexual orientation, disability or religion and belief.  However we do recognise that some groups are 
under-represented in our business.  We will continue to work hard to ensure that equal opportunities 
are available to all groups. 

 

Statutory Disclosures 

Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 employees 
are required to publish their “Gender Pay Gap”. 

Pay and Bonus Gap 

The table below shows our mean and median hourly gender pay gap as at 5 April 2017, and in 
the 12 months reference period to 5 April 2017 for bonus. 

 

Gender pay gap 
Gender bonus pay gap 

Mean 
35% 
78% 

Median 

28% 
47% 

 
Our analysis of our gender pay gap and gender bonus gap shows that they are largely driven by 
the fact that we have significantly more men than women in senior higher paid roles within the 
business (e.g. only 15% of the first pay quartile of our employees are women and only 28% in 
the second quartile).  This gender split is not untypical in the long-established Lloyd’s market.  

 

 

 

 

 

Employees receiving a bonus 

 

Percentage of employees receiving bonus 

Men 
96% 

Women 

91% 

 

This shows a 5% difference between the number of men and women who received a bonus 
related to the 2016 performance year.  The reason for this difference was that more women 
hired in the period were not eligible to receive a bonus as they joined the business too late in 
the year to qualify for consideration.   We are confident as a business that men and women 
have an equal opportunity to participate in the bonus scheme and earn a bonus. 

Pay Quartiles 

The chart below illustrates the gender distribution across Talbot for the four pay quartiles.  
The overall pay gap is heavily influenced by the gap in the first quartile. 

Pay Quartiles  

Percentage of female 

Percentage of male 

employees 

employees 

First Quartile 
Second Quartile 
Third Quartile 
Fourth Quartile 

15% 
28% 
47% 
44% 

85% 
72% 
53% 
56% 

Gender Pay Gap 
Mean percentage 

per quartile 

21% 
-2% 
8% 
-1% 

We  recognise  the  social  and  commercial  benefits  of  having  a  truly  diverse  workforce  and  remain 
committed  to  equal opportunities.  We  will  be  monitoring  the  effect  our  initiatives  are  having  and 
course correcting if the impact is not significant.  

Meaningful change takes time. Our aim is to achieve gender equality across our organisation. 

Finally we confirm that the data reported is accurate. 

 

 

 

 

 

Peter Bilsby 
Global Head of Insurance and Chief Executive Officer 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Dominic Scarlett 
Group Director of Human Resources 

 

