 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

In April 2017, the UK government introduced a new requirement: all companies who employ
 
more than 250 people must report on their gender pay gap. At graze we measure a lot of stuff
 
and are big believers that only when you start measuring something will it start to improve. We
 
look at the data, find out why it looks the way it does, and we take proactive action to improve it.
 
This is no different.   
 
We’re disappointed to say that looking at the prescribed April 2017 data, we do have a gender
 
pay gap but we understand why and we are already taking steps to address it.   
 
Our take on the gap 
Our gap is driven by two things: 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1) There are more women than men in our Warehouse Operative and other lower paid
 
entry level roles. Our production and fulfilment facility is a welcoming environment
 
 
where we’ve successfully attracted and retained female staff. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2) There are more men than women in our most highly paid Head, Director and C-Suite
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
roles. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
We have scrutinised the data very carefully and we’re confident that there is no pay bias
towards men. When we looked at our mean hourly pay rates for men and women within each
 
of the pay quartiles shown in our results, women are actually paid more than men in three out
 
of the four.   
 
What we’re doing 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1) We offer a really positive environment for women to succeed. Our culture and results
 
as a business are powered by different perspectives so being inclusive and a place
 
where people can be themselves has always been important to us. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2) We’re able to offer a range of options for flexible working like part time or flexible
 
hours and working from home, depending on the role and the work of the team, and
 
have loads of examples where this works brilliantly.   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3) We’ve also already made some changes that will hopefully contribute to closing the
 
 
In October 2017 we improved our maternity and paternity policies to give more
 

gap.
 
choice to take time off when families welcome a new arrival.   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The gap is closing already 
 
Since April 2017, we’ve hired or promoted more women into more senior, higher paying roles
 
and at the end of 2017 they occupied 40% of the spots in the top pay quartile, an increase of five
 
percentage points versus the data shown in the results.   
 
This is Jen, and she’s recently been promoted to Finance Director - have a read of her story… 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   
 

 
“​In the 2 years since I joined graze I've had the fantastic opportunity to progress through
 
 
a few different roles as the business has grown - from Head of Commercial Finance, to
Head of Retail Finance and now Acting Finance Director. I'm delighted to say that I've
 
also been able to vary my working pattern between part and full time at different points.
 
Graze is the first business I've worked for where honest, open discussions on flexing roles
 
and working arrangements have been really easy and straightforward, and it's made me
 
 
feel
Throughout there has been no shortage of
 
development - the demanding pace and culture of getting things done mean that I'm constantly
 
 
I also really enjoy working for a company and with a group of people
growing and learning new things.
 
 
 
who genuinely value lively, open debate and diversity: of thought, style and approach. It's exciting,
 
 
challenging and a lot of fun, every single day!”  

 
like a genuinely valued member of the team.
 
 

   
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Now, we need to keep the momentum up. We’re going to make sure we work hard to find,
 
 
recruit and develop even more brilliant women like Jen. We’re confident that with this focus,
and by continuing to look after the culture we’re so proud of: where people can be themselves
 
and manage across their work and life commitments, we can close the gap over time. 
 
The data 
The government has set strict rules on the metrics we need to report - these are shown in bold.
 
We’ve added in the data we looked at ourselves to check for any bias so you can see this too. 
 
 
All the numbers you see here are based on a snapshot of all employees and their earnings at
 
It’s broken down to hourly pay as the best comparison between all types of roles
April 5th 2017.
 
 
 
and working arrangements. For bonus metrics, we use any bonuses paid to employees in the 12
 
 
months leading up to the snapshot date, April 5th 2017.   
 
Total population: 130 women (51.0%) and 125 men (49.0%)
 
Hourly pay:

Our mean hourly pay is 19.8% lower for women than for men 
Our median hourly pay is 19.4% lower for women than for men 

 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
As we’ve said, the distribution of men and women across the different roles in our business
 
exaggerates the gap in hourly pay overall. April is also the month we pay our management
 
 
team bonuses (but not others) so this has to be included and inflates the gap. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bonuses:

Mean bonus pay is 53.3% lower for women than for men 
Median bonus pay is 0.4% lower for women than for men 
52.0% of men receive a bonus and 47.7% of women receive a bonus 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
from Warehouse staff on
We’ve got a range of bonus plans represented in the data,
 
 
 
 
performance related pay up to Management Team. We had more women than men in
Warehouse Op roles but only one woman eligible for a bonus in the Management Team. This
 
 
 
brought down the average bonus paid to women overall.   
 
Pay quartiles:

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lower quartile (lowest earners) is 43% men, 57% women  
and mean hourly pay is 0.3% higher for women than for men 
Lower middle quartile is 40% men, 60% women  
and mean hourly pay is 2.4% higher for women than for men 
Upper middle quartile is 52% men, 48% women  
and mean hourly pay is 3.0% lower for women than for men 
Upper quartile (highest earners) is 65% men, 35% women  
and mean hourly pay is 6.4% higher for women than for men 

