At Corin UK we are committed to creating an environment 
which promotes diversity, equality and inclusion. 
Therefore we are pleased to support the introduction 
of gender pay gap reporting across the UK which will 
encourage employers to make a positive step forward 
towards gender equality.
As required by UK legislation, the following report will 
detail our gender pay gap information for Corin UK at the 
snapshot date of 5 April, 2017. 

Pay quartiles across Corin UK 
The charts below show the gender distribution across Corin 
UK, in four equal sized pay quartiles.

The lower middle and upper middle quartiles are male 
dominated due to the number of men working within 
manufacturing and engineering roles.
Lower Quartile 

Lower Middle 

Bonuses awarded
The charts below show the percentage of men and women 
who were awarded bonuses within the 12 months prior to the 
snapshot period. This highlights that a higher proportion of 
women received bonuses. 

Males and females receiving a bonus

Female

Male

Upper Middle 

Upper Quartile 

Female

Male

Gender pay gap in Corin UK
15%    | Mean gender pay gap
16%    | Median gender pay gap
18.4% | 18.1% UK’s National Median gender pay gap,  
The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average 
earnings of men and women. Gender pay gap reporting is 
calculated in both median and mean averages within the 
snapshot period. This helps give a more balanced overview of 
the gender pay gap across an organisation. 

Source: Office of National Statistics 2017

The mean is the total of hourly rates, divided by the number of 
employees. Corin’s mean pay gap was 15%. The median is the 
middle value of employees pay. The median pay gap for Corin 
was 16%. At Corin UK we employ more men than women, with 
women making up 33% of our workforce, which has been the 
biggest driver in our mean gender pay gap. 

Whilst Corin is ahead of the national median average of 18.4% 
we want to continuously strive to close this gap even further.

We recognise the challenge we face in achieving a smaller 
gender gap amongst the more senior roles in Corin UK, but we 
are committed to developing an inclusive, diverse culture and 
implementing the right policies and structures to reduce the pay 
gap further.

The bonus gap figure below show that women received a 
higher average bonus payment than men, with the gap being 
-32%.
Bonus gender pay gap  
Mean            Median   
 
 
-32% 0% no differences in median bonus pay 
What will we do to address these gaps?
At Corin UK we will continue to promote diversity, inclusion and 
equality within our workforce, and we will be implementing a 
range of initiatives focused on reducing the gap. 

 

 

Director level focus and review:

 ■ there is a national shortage of female engineers within 
the UK, with women making up only 1 in 8 of those in 
engineering occupations. Corin will continue to work closely 
with local schools and colleges to encourage more women 
to join the engineering sector. 

 ■ to encourage more women to join the Company, Corin will 
continuously review our family friendly policies such as our 
enhanced maternity, flexible working and shared parental 
leave policies. 

 ■ Corin’s recruitment process will also promote gender 

equality through training hiring managers to avoid 
unconscious bias and ensuring that our job adverts 
have gender-neutral language to attract a diverse mix of 
candidates. 

I can confirm that the data shown in this report is accurate and 
aligned with the requirements of the Regulations.

Jonathan Lettin
Chief Operating Officer

