MCCANN WORLDGROUP GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

COMMITTED TO DIVERSITY & EQUALITY

OUR BELIEF
OUR BELIEF

“As a key member of the world’s most awarded network agency, McCann 
Worldgroup UK is made up of a highly diverse portfolio of premier clients 
and brands.

Our mission is to help build brands that have meaning in people’s lives. 
To achieve this, we have a cultural commitment to put creativity at the centre 
of everything we do and cultivate a diverse workforce, dedicated to 
creating an environment where women can build careers and progress 
within the agency and the industry as a whole.

Diversity is central to our strategy and an issue we are passionate about 
in the UK. We are unequivocally dedicated to attracting and developing 
the best and most diverse talent and nurturing a culture of inclusion.

To that end, and along with our UK Leadership and their HR Partners, 
I am proud to work with Singleton Beato, our global Chief Diversity and 
Engagement Of(cid:31)cer. Singleton and her team provide strategic guidance 
and tactical direction to McCann Worldgroup leaders about business 
and talent practices that foster a diverse and inclusive workplace culture. 

We’ve already made great strides in making diversity an integral part of 
our long-term growth plan and are fully committed to continuing to evolve 
our culture to ensure people from all backgrounds truly (cid:30)ourish.”

Mark Lund, CEO McCann Worldgroup UK

Diversity and Inclusion are fundamental to achieving our vision to become 
Diversity and Inclusion are fundamental to achieving our vision to become 
the #1 creatively-driven global marketing company. We view it as a business 
the #1 creatively-driven global marketing company. We view it as a business 
imperative that, when incorporated into all agency practices, becomes 
imperative that, when incorporated into all agency practices, becomes 
a competitive advantage, driving growth and organisational sustainability.
a competitive advantage, driving growth and organisational sustainability.

FOSTERING A CULTURE OF CONSCIOUS INCLUSION

Our diversity and engagement vision is to be a globally integrated community, 
where conscious inclusion enables the creative potential of our talent and 
our work. 
Integral to this vision is creating the conditions where women at all levels feel 
empowered to fully contribute and have equal opportunity to achieve their 
highest career ambitions.
We ensure a safe, respectful and open environment that allows employees 
at all levels to thrive. We create and evolve policies and practices that create 
an ethos of belonging, connection and purpose. We know that it is only 
through our relentless commitment to these principles that we are able to 
deliver the deepest, most connected communications expertise to our clients 
and their consumers.

WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP

In the UK, we are dedicated to creating an environment where women can 
build careers and progress within the agency and the industry as a whole. 
Our MWG UK Board consists of 33% women, ahead of the industry average 
of 30% (2017 IPA statistics).
Our focus over the last few years has been to invest in women at senior 
management level who constitute our future top executives. We hold annual 
high-potential development training to equip them with the skills needed to 
develop and succeed as our future leadership, as well as providing on-going 
mentorship programmes. 
The majority of our UK agencies partner with Creative Equals, an organisation 
dedicated to championing equality in agencies’ creative departments and the 
wider industry. Their goal is to realise a 50/50 gender split in senior creative 
positions by 2020, as well as to increase the diversity of the creative industry. 
This partnership is being rolled out across all agencies in our group.
As part of Interpublic Group (IPG) all employees have access to the Women’s 
Leadership Network http://wln.interpublic.com/ that addresses gender 
equality and stereotyping.
Other key UK initiatives to support the attraction and development of diverse 
employees include:

• 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
 
• 
 

Ahead Partnership: Education Sector: Socioeconomic diversity -    
Working with the organisation Ahead Partnerships to help unlock 
social and economic potential. 
 
Apprentice Programme - IPA & Creative Pioneers:  
working with IPA/Creative Pioneers to offer apprenticeships. 
In-House Recruitment Awards: McCann London has been    
 
shortlisted for “Best Diversity & Inclusion Strategy” by the industry  
awards recognising in-house recruitment strategies.
Investors in People: Awarded Gold for the last ten years, in recognition  
of our inclusive and diverse culture. 

 
 

 

 

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP, HOW IT IS CALCULATED 
AND OUR OVERALL RESULTS 

In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017, businesses with over 250 employees must publish their 
gender pay gap information every year showing how large the pay gap is 
between men and women. We are required to calculate the mean and 
medium percentages across our male and female employees for both hourly 
rates of pay at the 5th April 2017 and for bonuses paid.

Mean

Median

This is the sum of all the hourly
rates combined, divided by
the number of employees.

This is worked out by putting all
hourly rates in ascending order,
then picking the midmost one.

We recognise that our (cid:31)gure needs improvement, however, like many others 
in our industry, the gap is not caused by inequality in remuneration. At the 
point that the data was collected, we had fewer women working in certain 
higher paid roles which inevitably skewed the results. However, we (cid:31)rmly 
believe we have a strong record in hiring and developing senior female 
leaders and we will continue to help them to achieve their full potential at 
McCANN WorldGroup.

At McCann Manchester, our agency is headed up by a female CEO 
and 40% of board level and department head roles are held by women.
The most signi(cid:31)cant factor driving our gender pay gap is the lack 
of female representation in senior roles within our creative department 
- a challenge the industry as a whole faces. Digitally, we have made    
signi(cid:31)cant progress in improving female representation during the last   
twelve months.

MCCANN MANCHESTER
Summary:
• 
 
• 
 
 
 
 
•  We are committed to empowering females to succeed in our organisation  
and supporting their professional growth. Our learning and development  
 
 
programme, IMPACT, is central to this.
•  Our successful apprenticeship scheme is in its eighth year and we have  
evolved the programme to ensure we are developing important digital   
 
 
skills and careers. Of our recent intake of apprentices, 75% were female.

Snapshot date of 5th April 2017 
PAY DIFFERENCE OVERALL

Mean
20.10%

Gender
Pay Gap

Median
15.90%

Proportion of females and males in each qua rtile band

Upper

Upper
middle

Lower
middle

Lower

36.90%

63.10%

46.40%

53.60%

50% 50%

59%

41%

0 

20 

40 

60 

80 

Female

100

Male

Bonuses paid in the year up to 5th April 2017
BONUS PAY DIFFERENCE

Mean
-1.70%

Gender
Pay Gap

Median
12.7%

88.40%

82.10%

 
Proportion of 

males and females 
receiving a bonus 

payment

OUR PROGRAMMES

Our commitment to ensure fair and inclusive recruitment practices,  
integrating conscious inclusion principles and driving accountability 
into all talent communications and business processes.

Our Programmes that help support gender equality:
• 
 
 
•  Mandatory unconscious bias training for those in decision-making roles  
 
• 
 
 
 
• 
 
• 
 
 

with pastoral responsibilities, internally and externally.
A ‘Women in Leadership’ programme that identi(cid:31)es the challenges  
women leaders face, that differentiates gender issues from organisational  
issues and provides thoughtful leadership and co-counselling between   
women to address these challenges.
Facilitating engagement opportunities for leaders with high-performing  
diverse talent and improving our future talent pipeline.
Leadership Awareness and Culture Codex training for our senior leaders  
to support equality, an open culture, agile and (cid:30)exible working practices  
and continuous professional development of our people.

 

 

