Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited
Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

MMember of Walgreens Boots Alliance

A message from Jonathan

Caring  for  our  colleagues  and  customers  is  one  of  the  guiding  principles  at 
Boots Opticians and is at the heart of everything we do.

As  part  of  new  UK  regulations  we  are  publishing  our  ﬁrst  Gender  Pay  Gap 
report which has given us an opportunity to take stock of our business and 
understand  areas  where  we  can  continue  to  make  improvements  in  our 
workplace. As well as monitoring our gender pay data over the coming years 
we are committed to fully understanding the factors that are driving any gaps 
and how we can continue to make a positive difference to closing our gender 
pay gap.

At Boots Opticians, we pride ourselves on the heritage of our brand and how 
we make a difference to the lives of our customers. 76% of our colleagues are 
women and we remain committed to providing opportunities for all our people 
to grow and develop to their full potential within our business. We understand 
and listen to the needs of our colleagues and have already made progress on 
gender pay through our diversity and inclusion policies, which include ﬂexible 
working options and our enhanced maternity pay. 

We  want  to  continue  to  inspire  our  colleagues  to  provide  outstanding 
customer care, whilst also supporting their current and future career with us at 
Boots Opticians.

Jonathan Gardner
Managing Director, Boots Opticians

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

1

Introduction

in 

the  UK,  and 

Boots  Opticians  is  one  of  the  leading 
Opticians 
is  part  of 
Walgreens  Boots  Alliance,  Inc.  (Nasdaq: 
WBA), the ﬁrst global pharmacy-led, health 
and  wellbeing  enterprise.  Boots  Opticians 
was  founded  in  1983  but  Boots  as  a 
healthcare  brand  was  created  almost  170 
years ago by Jesse Boot. The Boots brand 
has  always  been  at  the  heart  of  the 
communities  it  serves  and  is  passionate 
about both its female and male colleagues 
and customers.

Jesse Boot’s wife Florence, took a personal 
interest 
female 
employees  and, 
in  1911,  appointed  a 
welfare   worker    for    women.    In   1918,  

the  welfare  of  her 

in 

Florence  was appointed as one of the ﬁrst 
female directors of any UK business. Along 
with  Jesse,  Florence  helped  Boots  to  lead 
the way in working practices for colleagues 
and, in 1934, reduced  the   working  week  
from  ﬁve  and  a  half  days  to  ﬁve  days  per 
week  for  all  factory  employees,  with  no 
reduction in pay. This set a new standard of 
home  and  work  life  balance  in  British 
industry. 

Throughout  our  history,  our  colleagues 
have always been important to us. Equality 
and  closing  the  gender  pay  gap  is  an 
important part of this continued journey. We 
recognise,  however, 
that  meaningful 
change takes time. 

Jesse  Boot,  Founder  of  Boots  and  Florence  Boot, 
Boots’ first female director.

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

We  welcome  the  introduction  of  gender 
pay gap reporting because we see it as an 
opportunity  to  identify  the  root  causes  of 
any  gender  pay  gaps  that  exist  within  our 
company.  Through  our  diversity  and 
inclusion  policies,  we  will  look  to  ﬁnd 
solutions  for  all  colleagues  that  reﬂect  a 
changing  society  and  help  them  to  fulﬁl 
their potential. 

Why are we doing this?

For the ﬁrst time, UK companies with over 
250  employees  are  required  to  publicly 
report on their gender pay gap under new 
legislation that was introduced April 2017. 

With 60% of our customers and 76% of our 
colleagues being female, gender balance is 
really important to us and the legislation is 
helping us to look at things differently and 
identify  ways  we  can  work  to  close  our 
gender pay gap.

The  legislation  requires  us  to  report  our 
mean  and  median  pay  gap,  bonus  mean 
and  median  pay  gap,  the  percentage  of 
male and female employees who received a 
bonus  payment  and  the  percentage  of 
males and females in each quartile. 

2

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
What is the difference between equal pay and a 
gender pay gap?

A gender pay gap is different from equal pay. 

Equal pay

Equal pay is paying males and females equally for like work, 
work of equal value and work rated as equivalent. There has 
been legislation outlining equal pay obligations in the UK for 
nearly 50 years.   

Gender pay gap

A  gender  pay  gap  looks  at  the  differences  in  pay  between 
genders across groups of employees irrespective of the work 
they perform.  

=

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

3

One of the main reasons for the gender pay gap in our society is 

that men are statistically more likely to be in senior roles. 

Understanding gender pay gap reporting 
How  are  the  median  and  mean 
pay gaps calculated?

Mean pay gap – If we add together all the 
hourly 
rates  of  male  colleagues  and 
calculate the  average  and  do  the same for 
female colleagues, the mean pay gap (as a 
percentage) is the difference in pay between 
the average male and female hourly rate. 

The median is the middle point of a range of 
numbers and the mean is the average of a 
range of numbers. How do we calculate this 
for gender pay gap reporting?

Median pay gap – If all our male colleagues 
stood in a line in order of lowest hourly rate 
earned  to  highest  and  all  females  did  the 
same, the median pay gap (as a percentage) 
is the difference in pay between the middle 
colleague  on  the  male  line  and  the  middle 
colleague on the female line. 

Median pay gap

=

Mean pay gap

Sum of the male rates 

Divided by the number of males

Sum of the female rates 

Divided by the number of females

How 
is 
calculated?

the  bonus 

gap 

The  mean  and  median  bonus  gaps  are 
calculated  in  the  same  way  as  the  gender 
pay  gaps.  However,  this  time  we  use  the 
actual  bonus  paid  to  colleagues.  We  also 
report  the  number  of  male  and  female 
colleagues 
(as  a 
percentage  of  the  total  male  and  female 
population).

receiving  a  bonus 

How  are  the  pay  quartiles 
calculated?

Pay  quartiles  are  calculated  by  dividing  all 
hourly rates paid across the business, from 
lowest  to  highest,  into  four  equal  sized 
groups  of  colleagues  and  calculating  the 
percentage of males and females in each.  

Pay quartiles

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

4

Our 201 7 results 

24%

Percentages of all our
male and female 

colleagues

76%

The percentages of all male and female colleagues within each quartile pay band is:

Pay quartiles

LOWER QUARTILE

2nd QUARTILE

3rd QUARTILE

4th QUARTILE

20%

80%

16%

84%

26% 74%

35% 65%

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

5

Our 201 7 results

Gender pay gap

Median pay gap

Mean pay gap

21%

20%

Median national average pay gap 18.4%, mean national average pay gap 17.4% based on
estimates from the Ofﬁce of National Statistics’ Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017

Bonus gap

51%

received bonus

66%

received bonus

Median bonus gap

Mean bonus gap

0%

46%

We believe the main reason for our gender pay gap is the 
structure of our workforce with more females than males in 
our lower paid roles across the organisation. Consequently 
the  median  for  female  colleagues  sits  within  our  hourly 
paid  workforce  whereas  the  median  for  male  colleagues 
sits  within  our  salaried  clinical  roles.  This  gives  a  lower 
female  median  compared  to  the  male  median.  We  know 
that the gender pay gap in quartiles 1 and 2 is less than 1% 
in favour of females due to the fact that these quartiles are 
made  up  of  hourly  paid  colleagues  who  are  paid  at  the 
same rate. 

Our  pay  ranges  differ  by  location  as  well  as  job  level. 
Where there are variations in market rates of pay between 
job levels and locations, this can contribute to the gender 
pay gap.

All bonuses as paid in the year up to 5 April 2017 are used 
for  the  calculation  of  the  bonus  gap.  The  calculation  is 
based on actual bonus paid rather than full-time equivalent 
and we have a high proportion of female colleagues who 
work part-time and recieved a pro-rated payment.

Not all of our bonus schemes resulted in a payment in the 
reporting  period  which  has  negatively  inﬂuenced  our 
bonus gap. All of our bonus schemes are gender neutral by 
design  and  half  of  all  male  and  two  thirds  of  all  female 
colleagues received a bonus payment in this period.

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

6

What are we doing to address our gender pay gap?

We are committed to encouraging and supporting female colleagues across the 

organisation and inspiring everyone to reach their full potential. 

WHAT WE’VE DONE SO FAR

WHAT WE WILL BE DOING

• Flexible working policies: We have had a variety of ﬂexible 
working policies in place for many years. 40% of all 
colleagues work part-time (less than 32 hours per week)
• Women in leadership: As of January 2017, 34% of our 
senior managers and leaders were female which exceeds the 
Hampton-Alexander* target of 33% of women on leadership 
boards. We will continue to focus on this work
• Flexible working for clinicians: Since April 2015, we 
increased the number of part-time contracts for our clinician 
colleagues by 2% and, as of April 2017, 50% of our clinicians 
worked part-time (less than 32 hours per week)
• Maternity pay: We have recently enhanced our maternity 
pay for colleagues. With the majority of colleagues being 
female, it is important that we are committed to supporting 
them with the right offer in place to help them balance their 
home and work life

• Flexible working policies: While we already have these in 
place, we will focus on encouraging ﬂexible working across 
all roles
• Unconscious bias training: Unconscious bias refers to the 
stereotypes, both negative and positive, that exist in 
people’s subconscious and affect their behaviour. Our 
training programme will support our leaders in fair and 
inclusive decision making. This will also form part of our 
leadership training
• Pay: We have and will continue to strengthen our 
governance process for pay policy decisions to ensure we 
are fair to all colleagues
• Encouraging colleagues back to work: We will bring our 
ﬂexible working policies to life for those on maternity and 
adoption leave helping more colleagues to feel supported 
and able to return to work in a way that’s right for them 

*The Hampton-Alexander review is an independent 2017 review by Sir Philip 
Hampton  and  the  late  Dame  Helen  Alexander,  commissioned  by  the 
government  which  looks  into  increasing  the  number  of  women  in  senior 
positions  in  FTSE  100  companies.  We  have  done  this  despite  not  being  a 
FTSE 100 company. 

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

7

Our commitment

As a business, we will continue to build a 
more  diverse  and  inclusive  culture.  We 
are    proud  that  45%  of  our  female 
colleagues 
  and  20%  of  our  male 
colleagues work  part-time giving them the 
opportunity  they  require  to  balance  their 
home and work lives (part-time is less than 
32 hours per week). 

We  are  committed  to  encouraging  and 
supporting female colleagues across our 
organisation  and  inspiring  everyone  to 
reach their full potential.
 

20%

work part-time

45%

work part-time

We confirm that the information contained within this report is accurate.

ERICA MOORE

Head of HR, Boots Opticians

EMMA HARRIS

Finance Director, Boots Opticians

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

8

Boots Opticians Professional Services Limited - Gender Pay Gap Report as at April 2017

