 

 
2017 Gender Pay Report 
 
At CeDo Limited, we are committed to ensure that everyone is rewarded fairly and has the same opportunities 
for development and growth. 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings between women and 
men.  The reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations 
every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees. 
 
In the UK the gap for all employees (full-time and part-time) has reduced from 19.3% in 2015 to 18.1% in 2016 
(source: Office of National Statistics) 
 
While the UK gender pay gap is at its lowest level the UK Government are aiming at bringing this down further 
and have identified 3 primary causes of the gender pay gap in the UK; 

•  A higher proportion of women choose occupations that offer less financial reward and, many high 

paying sectors are disproportionately made up of male workers. 

•  A much higher proportion of women work part-time, and part-time workers earn less than their full-

time counterparts on average. 

•  Women are still less likely to progress up the career ladder into high paying senior roles. 

Is the Gender Pay Gap the same as Equal Pay? 
No, the gender pay gap is separate from equal pay. ‘Equal pay’ is about ensuring all workers receive the same 
level of pay for doing the same job or similar work of equal value, regardless of their gender. 
 
Men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business.  All of our shift workers (day 
and night shift) receive a premium within their salary payment to recognise the shift pattern of 3 working shifts 
and 3 rest days. 
 
CeDo is committed to  supporting the Gender Pay Reporting regulations and initiatives that will help drive an 
improvement in our gender pay gap. 
 
Our Pay Gap Results 
Below is the data that we are required to report by the Gender Pay Gap Regulations for the snapshot date of 5th 
April 2017. Base Pay data is calculated for all payments received in the pay period which includes the 5th April 
and bonus calculations are based on all payments received in the 12 months prior to this date (i.e. April 2016- 
March 2017). 
 
The data includes all roles based in our UK business and any expats with strong links to the UK. It does not cover 
any of our employees based permanently outside of the UK. 
 
Pay & Bonus 
 
As of 5th April 2017 we employed 287 staff with 76 (26%) being female and 211 (74%) being Male, which is a 
ratio of approximately 1:3 female to male employees. 
 
What is the Median Pay Gap? 
The median represents the middle point of a population. If you separately lined up all the women in a company 
and  all  the  men,  the  median  pay  gap  is  the  difference  between  the  hourly  pay  rate  for  the  middle  woman 
compared to that of the middle man. 
 
 
 

 

Page 1 of 3 

 
What is the Mean Pay Gap? 
The mean gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay for women compared to men, within a 
company. 
 

 

Difference between men 

Mean 

and women 

(Average) 

Median 
(Middle) 

Gender Pay Gap 

6% 

15% 

Gender Bonus Gap 

14% 

6% 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

Our results show that our gender pay is low compared to 
the  UK  average.    One  reason  for  this  is  that  we  employ 
more  male  than  female  employees  and  we  have  more 
men in senior positions within the organisation. 
 
Historically  we  have  seen  that  a  manufacturing 
environment  has  attracted  more  men  than  females, 
however  we  are  keen  to  attract  more  females  to  the 
sector. 
 

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES 

RECEIVING A 2016 BONUS PAYMENT

In 2017, 15 members of staff received a bonus payment.  These 
are our senior representatives of the business.    
 
We are working with our business leaders to ensure that there 
are  increased  opportunities  for  others  to  impact  their  pay  and 
have the opportunity to earn a bonus. 
 

Female, 

4%

Male, 6%

 
 
Proportion of females and males per earning quartile 
 
We took the pay rates for all employees and listed from highest to lowest, this was then split into quarters, for 
each quarter we analysed the male and female mix in each. 
 

Proportion of males and females in each quartile band

UPPER QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

LOWER QUARTILE

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

120%

MALES

FEMALES

 
Our pay levels are determined with regards to the level of role and benchmarked against external data.  During 

the latter part of 2017 we have undertaken a role evaluation process to ensure we understand the roles that are 

performed, the competencies of each role, the skills required and the level of results that are expected.   

CeDo adhere to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees and are committed 

to promoting this throughout the organisation. 

 

Page 2 of 3 

 

 

 

 
Our Action Plan 
Our analysis shows that our gender pay gap is below the UK national average however this is largely driven by 
the  demographic  of  our  workforce,  and  there  currently  being  more  male  than  female  employees  in  senior 
positions within the business.   
 
We are therefore committed to: 
 

•  Reviewing and developing our family friendly policies to support the removal of barriers that employees 
with family commitments may face.  We will ensure we support our managers to consider alternative 
ways of working to support this. 
Ensuring that development opportunities are available for all and to ensure women are supported and 

• 

encouraged to apply more senior roles. 

•  Reviewing and developing our recruitment processes to ensure the right person for the job is selected 

regardless of gender. 

• 

Through  our  apprenticeship  programme  and  working  with  partner  organisations,  encourage  more 

female employees into engineering roles. 

 

I can confirm that the information published above is accurate: 

Signed:   

Name:  Kate Allum  

Title:  CEO  

Date:  3 April 2018 

 

Page 3 of 3 

