2017 Gender Pay Gap
UK Regulatory Report

Our Commitment to 
Diversity & Inclusion

McAfee is ﬁrmly committed to driving diversity in all 
forms. Diversity of thought creates more opportunities 
for real innovation, creativity and strategic problem 
solving. Bringing together diﬀerent perspectives and 
experiences makes us all stronger while adding real 
value to our company, our solutions, and ultimately, to 
our customers.

Our commitment is about more than just the business 
beneﬁts, however. It’s also about every person’s right to 
bring their authentic self to work and to contribute 
openly with their own unique perspectives and ideas. At 
McAfee, we promote acceptance in the workplace, and 
diversity and inclusion help form the foundation of our 
culture.

We wholly support the UK government’s commitment to gender equality. 
We believe that by working in partnership with industry we can bridge the 
gender divide in the UK workplace—as is particularly evident in the 
cybersecurity industry. With a shortfall of two million cybersecurity roles 
predicted by 20191, we urgently need both women and men to pursue a 
career in STEM. 

While we know we won’t see the dramatic shift this industry needs 
overnight, McAfee is committed to investing in new programmes and 
initiatives to drive change. We retain a dual focus on attracting women 
within the current talent pool to either continue or build a career in STEM, 
while simultaneously working to fuel the future talent pipeline with greater 
exposure and encouragement for the rewarding world of cybersecurity. 

During this reporting period, McAfee (then known as Intel Security), 
operated as a part of Intel Corporation. Since our divestiture and relaunch 
of an independent McAfee on April 3rd, 2017, we have accelerated our 
commitment to diversity. New recruitment practices, role modelling 
programmes, strategic partnerships and company-wide trainings ensure 
diversity is part of our everyday vernacular at McAfee.

We look forward to continuing to build on this momentum and work 
together to drive positive change.

Chatelle Lynch
Chief Human Resources Oﬃcer
McAfee

12016 ISACA Report

UK Gender Pay Gap Analysis

Under new laws welcomed by McAfee, all employers in the UK with 250 or more 
employees must report statutory calculations indicating their gender pay gap size.

McAfee is proud to be a responsible business that believes in the economic 
empowerment of women. With females representing just 26%2 of the UK high-tech 
population, and dropping to only 17% for technical roles, we recognise the 
importance of shining a light on diversity and working together to actively 
encourage more females into the industry. 

This report follows the government’s required methodology, which consists of: 

•

•

•

Using hourly rates of pay to generate a “pay gap” of all male and female 
employees using a mean and a median ﬁgure. 

Key consideration: This data does not account for comparisons of role and 
seniority; and therefore, does not directly compare men and women performing 
the same roles. McAfee has a total female UK population of 18.9% and has more 
men in technical, sales and senior roles, which are higher earning roles. 

Providing gender data on the snapshot date of April 5th, 2017. It includes all 
employees paid their usual full pay in the qualifying pay period that included the 
snapshot date as well as their gender. Pay includes ordinary and bonus paid in 
the snapshot period, calculated to an hourly rate.  

Key consideration: Data does not account for prorated bonus earnings for 
part-time employees. McAfee oﬀers ﬂexible working options. Of the total UK 
McAfee female population, 10.7% were in part-time, ﬂexible roles at the 
snapshot date (compared with just .86% of the total UK male population). 
Part-time employees’ annualised bonus amounts are not reﬂected in this report.

Bonuses include any rewards paid during the period of 6th April 2016 – 5th April 
2017 related to: proﬁt-sharing, productivity, performance, incentive, commission.

Key consideration: With more men in commission-based roles (sales) than 
women, men represent a higher percentage securing greater bonuses due to 
role type.

2“Addressing the Gender Pay Gap in the Tech Industry,” Mercer

UK Workforce
Total UK Gender Split

18.9%

F

UK Gender Pay Gap Results
Pay and Bonus Gap

 
 
 

Mean   
24.79% 
49.62% 

Median
26.17%
39.30%

81.1%

M

 

 
Hourly Rate of Pay 
Bonus Pay 

 

 

Proportion of 
Employees Receiving 
Bonus Pay

97.73% 

92.86%

Proportion of Male and Female UK Employees 
in Each Quartile Band

90.83%

84.4%

M

78.7%

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

9.17%

15.6%

21.3%

F

69.09%

30.91%

Our Approach to Supporting Women in the Workplace

Recruitment and Hiring Practices
Our hiring strategy focuses on both today’s available talent, as well as cybersecurity 
exposure to young women to encourage them to enter the industry. In an industry 
underrepresented by women, the gender gap as detailed in this report won’t 
change overnight. Below are some of our eﬀorts designed to close the gap.

Recruiting for Today
•

Hiring Panel: McAfee requires a female on every hiring panel. This means a 
candidate will always be interviewed by at least one woman.

•

•

Values-Based Interviews: In 2017, McAfee introduced values-based behavioural 
interviewing to provide impartial assessments and remove any unconscious 
biases.

Return to Work Programmes: McAfee is launching a number of new Return to 
Work programmes for those who have taken career breaks. We piloted this 
programme successfully in Ireland and will launch across the UK in 2018.

Recruiting for Tomorrow
•

McAfee Explorers: In 2018, McAfee launched this job shadowing programme 
that allows 11-18 year olds to learn about a career in cybersecurity. Young girls 
learn the requisite skills in this IT sector, hear more on a day in the life of a 
female data scientist or engineer and gain key connections to start the path of 
joining cybersecurity.

•

McAfee’s Online Safety Programme for Kids: This program has already 
reached more than 500,000 children. Run and organised by McAfee volunteers, 
our employees give back to local communities by teaching children about online 
safety and in the process, expose young children to a career in cybersecurity.

Authorised Signature
I conﬁrm that the data contained within this report is accurate and meets the 
requirements of the Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations.

Rewards and Beneﬁts
•

Maternity Leave: McAfee oﬀers maternity leave at a 
full year. This includes 39 weeks paid leave with the ﬁrst 
26 weeks paid at 100%. New parents are also oﬀered a 
ﬂexi-time option for the ﬁrst year after maternity/ 
adoption/parental leave to return to work on a gradual 
or phased basis.

•

•

Childcare Vouchers: McAfee oﬀers childcare vouchers 
for greater ﬁnancial support for families, encouraging 
women to return to work after maternity leave.

Mother’s Rooms and Parking: In 2018, Mother’s 
Rooms (for breastfeeding) will be added to two UK sites 
and all UK oﬃces will have dedicated parking for 
pregnant women.

Education and Training
•

Unconscious Bias Training: All employees participate 
in unconscious bias training to identify any biases and 
gain guidance for overcoming these.

•

Events: McAfee is an active supporter of events and 
celebrations such as International Women’s Day and 
International Day of the Girl. This vocal support, 
internally and externally, creates a safe and welcoming 
environment for our female employees and 
encourages other women to consider McAfee.

Women in Security – McAfee Community
•

WISE: McAfee’s employee-run resource group, Women 
in Security (WISE), relaunched in 2017 as part of the 
new McAfee, and in 2018, two new UK site chapters will 
be added. Our WISE community supports our female 
population with career development opportunities, 
mentoring and proﬁle-raising opportunities.

