Medacs Healthcare Plc

Part of

Gender Pay Gap Report

Introduction

We welcome the opportunity to 
share gender pay gap information for 
Medacs Healthcare, as it will help us 
have more meaningful conversations 
with our people and our customers 
about equality, diversity and inclusion.

Medacs Healthcare has an overall 
median gender pay gap of 11.63%, 
which is below the national average of 
18.8%. Women are well represented 
in healthcare, and this is reflected in 
the gender make up of our workforce, 
where women make up the majority  
of all pay quartiles.

Of the people included in the 
calculations, 58% are temporary 
workers and their pay is fixed by 
our customers. In the interests of full 
disclosure, we have also chosen to 
provide an analysis of our permanent 
UK employees.

Among our people our median 
gender pay gap decreases to 3.69%. 
We pay men and women equally 
for the roles they do, so the gender 
pay gaps reflect the make up of 
our workforce. We have more 
women than men in every pay 
quartile; however, women are under-
represented at senior management 
level, which gives us the gap.

We have made good progress with 
diversity and inclusion at Medacs 
Healthcare and understanding our 
gender pay gap drives us to do more. 
We are committed to improving 
the gender balance of our senior 
management, which is key to tackling 
our gender pay gap. 

We are investing in a range of 
initiatives to bring about change  
and this report outlines more detail 
about what we are undertaking as 
part of a broader focus on creating  
a more inclusive workplace.

Nigel Marsh 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Medacs Global Group 

I confirm the information  
and data reported is accurate as  
of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Julia Robertson  
Group CEO, Impellam Group Plc

2

Medacs Healthcare Gender Pay Gap ReportUnderstanding  
the gender pay gap 

Gender pay vs. equal pay 
A gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay across  
all of the men and women in an organisation, industry or country  
as a whole. It can be driven by the differing number of men  
and women across all roles. 

It is not the same as an equal pay comparison which looks at  
how much men and women are paid for doing the same role. 

How we calculated  
our numbers
Under the UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation, 
companies need to report their gender pay gap for all legal  
entities in Great Britain with more than 250 employees. We have 
provided data on all of our permanent and temporary employees,  
as required by the regulation. 

Given we are a staffing business we have a very high number of 
temporary workers on our payrolls at any one time. This number 
fluctuates depending on requirements from our clients, and typically 
the rate of pay that our temporary workers receive is decided by  
our clients. We have also reported on our permanent employees 
only and our temporary employees only. 

Pay quartiles explained
A pay quartile is calculated by listing the hourly pay rates for 
everyone in the business then dividing them in to four equal-sized 
groups. We then work out the percentage of men and women in 
each group. 

Mean and median gaps explained
The figure used most regularly is the median gender pay gap.  
To help bring this to life, imagine all of the women at Medacs 
Healthcare standing in one line, from lowest paid by hour to highest, 
and all of the men doing the same in another line. The median  
gender pay gap is the percentage difference in hourly pay between 
the woman in the middle of the line and the man in the middle  
of the line. Hourly pay includes leave and any shift premiums,  
but not overtime.

Lowest paid

Median

Highest paid

The mean gender pay gap is the percentage difference in the 
average pay of men and women. This is calculated by adding up all  
of the hourly pay rates for all of the women in a business and dividing 
it by the number of women, then doing the same for the men and 
comparing the difference. The mean can be affected by different 
numbers of men and women in different roles. This is why we also 
report the number of men and women in different pay quartiles. 

We also report the median and mean differences in bonus pay over 
a twelve month period, and the percentage of men and women who 
received a bonus. 

A positive percentage shows a gap in favour of men; a negative 
percentage shows a gap in favour of women. 

3

Medacs Healthcare Gender Pay Gap ReportOur figures  
for 2017

All UK employees, including 
temporary and permanent

Pay - hourly rate
Median

11.63%

Mean

34.97%

Proportion of employees according to quartile bands

Male

Female

38%

Upper 
(highest 
paid)

Upper 
middle

62%

24%

Lower 
middle

76%

Lower 
(lowest 
paid)

22%

19%

78%

81%

Bonus pay difference between men and women
Median

Mean

10.17%

26.81%

Percentage of males / females receiving a bonus payment

21%

Male

Female

27%

Did you know?
•   Medacs Healthcare’s overall gender pay gap is 11.63%.  In the 

healthcare sector, men tend to hold the most senior clinical 
positions whilst women hold 86% of lower paid nursing  
roles, which causes a gender pay gap.

•   Among our permanent employees the gender pay gap is 3.69%. 
We have more female than male employees in all pay quartiles; 
however, men hold the most senior roles with the highest bonus 
potential, meaning we still have a gap. 

Permanent employees only

Median / mean hourly pay gap 
Median / mean bonus pay gap 
% males / females receiving a bonus payment 
Upper quartile (male / female %) 
Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower quartile (male / female %) 

Temporary employees only

Median / mean hourly pay gap 
Median / mean bonus pay gap 
% males / females receiving a bonus payment 
Upper quartile (male / female %) 
Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower quartile (male / female %) 

3.69 / 20.28%
18.75 / 34.87%
47.01 / 55.64%
26.32 / 73.68%
24.14 / 75.86%
23.81 / 76.19%
18.92 / 81.08%

16.47 / 41.85%
0.00% / -9.09%
5.32 / 2.31%
45.96 / 54.04%
20.63 / 79.38%
25.47 / 74.53%
18.63 / 81.37%

4

Medacs Healthcare Gender Pay Gap ReportHow we are building  
an inclusive business

We are committed to creating an inclusive and diverse business built on trust, and the following initiatives support our goals:

1.   We support a Diversity  

and Inclusion Network
 We participate actively in Impellam Group’s Diversity and 
Inclusion network which fosters an inclusive and diverse 
workforce by encouraging positive conversations that drive 
clear action.

 

 

2.   We are building a culture  

of Virtuosity
 We continue to invest in our Virtuoso programme which 
recognises that it is our managers who make the difference  
in building trust, relationships and better futures for our clients 
and our people. This focus on Virtuosity is central to our 
strategy and frees our managers from conventional thinking  
so they see new possibilities, enabling our people to realise  
their full potential and to thrive.

3.  We address unconscious bias 
 All our people take and have access to training via our online 
 
learning system to help them understand, identify and address 
unconscious bias. We also offer this training to our customers  
as and when appropriate.

 

4.   We facilitate conversations 

around flexible working
 We are an inclusive business, and we encourage flexibility, 
including part-time work and home working. We hold 
conversations with managers to explore whether personal 
ambitions are being met, as well as business objectives.  
By addressing the whole person, we will create a more  
engaged, productive workforce that allows our people  
to be their authentic selves at work.

5.  We support working parents
 We have introduced a clear wellbeing strategy to support 
 
working parents, incorporating flexible working hours,  
a maternity buddy system to support pre-maternity leave  
and reintegration into the company, and gender neutrality  
in all communications

5

Medacs Healthcare Gender Pay Gap ReportMedacs Healthcare Plc

www.medacs.com

