 

Oakland International 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 

Introduction 
 
This year sees the first published results under gender pay gap reporting legislation, which required any UK employer 
with over 250 employees to publish any pay gaps between male and female employees. This report details the results 
of  the  analysis  performed  by  Oakland  International  in  accordance  with  the  snapshot  date  of  April  2017.  Oakland 
International is predominantly a warehousing & storage business with a 76% male/ 26% female demographic ratio. 
 

Pay & Bonus  

 
Pay Gap 
Bonus Gap 

Mean 
-0.8% 

3% 

Median 
-1.3% 
-555% 

 

 
What does this mean?  
 
This  means  that  our  gender  pay  gap  is  in  favour  of  women.  Any  figure  that  has  a  minus  before  it  means  that  the 
percentage is higher for women and without a minus means that the percentage is higher for men. Therefore, we pay 
on average 0.8% more to women.  
 
In terms of bonuses, the gap shows a mean of 3% higher for men but the median shows such a high percentage for 
females as bonuses paid to males tend to be lower value for warehouse operatives. Our female workers tend to be in 
roles  that  are  more  senior  and  have  the  ability  to  earn  higher  bonuses.  A  median  value  takes  the  mid-point  for 
comparison. 
 

Proportion of Team Members Receiving a Bonus 

 
 

 

 
 

 
What does it mean? 
 
The above charts show the numbers of employees who did and did not receive a bonus during the relevant period. It 
demonstrates that the gap between male and female team members is 8%.  
 

Pay Quartiles 
 

 

 

 
What does it mean? 
 
The  above  charts  demonstrate  that  across  the  business  we  have  a  larger  proportion  of  males  across  all  quartiles. 
However, considering that the male/female demographic is 74% male and 26% female, it is interesting to note that in 
the upper quartile the percentages do increase quite significantly in favour of female team members. 
 
Here at Oakland International we are committed to our family values and are focused on ensuring all team members 
are treated equally regardless of any irrelevant factor. We regularly monitor our pay rates and bonus payments along 
with a variety of other factors to ensure we remain fair and equal to all. We will continue with this focus as we strive 
to enhance the remuneration to all our team. 
 
I can confirm that the data used in this report is accurate. 

 

Cory Winstanley 
HR Director 
 

 

 

      

