Northampton College Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations requires 
Northampton College, as a relevant public authority with 250 or more employees as at 
31 March 2017, to publish details of its gender pay gap by 31 March 2018. 

The information, which is based on the ‘snapshot data’ as at 31 March 2017, is published 
in accordance with the measures/definitions outlined below: 

Definitions 

Mean gender pay gap  
The difference between the mean (average) hourly rate of pay of male employees and 
that of female employees  

Median gender pay gap 
The difference between the median (mid-point) hourly rate of pay of male employees 
and that of female employees 

Mean bonus gap 
The difference between the mean (average) bonus paid to male employees and that paid 
to female employees  

Median bonus gap 
The difference between the median (mid-point) bonus pay paid to male employees and 
that paid to female employees 

Bonus proportions 
The proportions of male and female employees who were paid bonus pay during the 
relevant period  

Quartile pay bands 
The proportions of male and female employees in the lower, lower middle, upper middle 
and upper quartile pay bands 

The difference between Equal Pay and Gender Pay Gap 

Fundamentally, the principles of both gender pay gap reporting and equal pay are 
enshrined in reducing/removing pay differentials between male and female employees.  
However, it is important to note that they are distinct in nature.  Specifically, equal pay 
deals with the pay differentials between men and women who carry out the same jobs, 
similar jobs or work of equal value.  The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference 
between men and women’s average earnings across an organisation, expressed as a 
percentage of men’s earnings.  According to the Office for National Statistics, the median 
(mid-point) gender pay gap in the United Kingdom in April 2017 was 18.4%. 

Northampton College’s Gender Pay Gap Statistics 

Mean (average) gender pay gap 

Female Hourly Rate of Pay 

Male Hourly Rate of Pay 

Difference (%) 

14.00 

15.31 

8.6 

 

Median (mid-point) gender pay gap 

Female Hourly Rate of Pay 

Male Hourly Rate of Pay 

Difference (%) 

12.23 

14.90 

17.9 

 

 

Page 1 of 3 

Mean (average) bonus gap 

Female mean bonus 

Male mean bonus payment 

Difference (%) 

payment  
1148.75 

 

Median (mid-point) bonus gap 

641.67 

-79 

Female median bonus 

Male median bonus 

Difference (%) 

payment  
1000.00 

 

Bonus proportions 

payment 
500.00 

-100 

Percentage of females who received 

Percentage of males who received bonus 

bonus pay 

3.5 

 

Quartile pay bands 

pay 
3.9 

Top quartile 

Upper Middle 

Lower middle 

Lower quartile 

Quartile 

quartile 

Female 

60.8 

Male 
39.2 

Female 

64.3 

Male 
35.7 

Female 

70.4 

Male 
29.6 

Female 

76.4 

Male 
23.6 

 

NB A positive figure denotes that women earn on average less than men and, 
conversely, a negative figure denotes that women earn on average more than men.  

Analysis 

The principal reason for the mean and median gender pay gap, when considering the 
hourly rate of pay, is as a result of the proportion of females who occupy roles that offer 
flexibility and/or part time working opportunities, which speaks to the fact that women 
remain the main providers of care e.g. for children and relatives.  As reported by the 
CIPD (Gender Pay Gap Reporting Guide – March 2017), women are over-represented in 
occupations such as catering and caring and it is these roles, as reflected by the 
proportions in the College’s lower and lower middle quartiles, which are flexible in nature 
(e.g. offer term time working) due to the College’s business type.  However, it is 
important to note that this does not equate to an equal pay disparity as women who 
carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value to men are paid on the same 
pay bands. 

A secondary factor for differentials, although lower in impact on the data, is an important 
area to consider, because it again speaks to the traditional occupational sectors that 
females and males have chosen/occupy.  Specifically, as is commonplace in the sector, it 
is difficult for colleges to attract teaching staff in such areas as Engineering and 
Electrical, which are roles traditionally occupied by men.  As such, the College, where 
essential, applies market forces payments in these areas.  Whilst it is legitimate for  
organisations to utilise such payments, the College is keen to address these 
‘occupational traditions’, for example when carrying out a recent recruitment campaign 
for construction, the College had a concerted focus on women in the industry.   

 

 

Page 2 of 3 

Action Plan 

The College reviews/reports/updates and publishes its Equality Objectives on an annual 
basis (July) and as such will be incorporating objectives in respect to closing the gender 
pay gap within that remit.  

 

I can confirm the accuracy of this data. 

Jan Hutt 
Director of Human Resources 

23 March 2018 

 

 

Page 3 of 3 

