recycling and recovery UK

gender 
  pay gap 
report 
   2016-17

gender pay gap report 2016-17

As part of a global organisation, we believe that diversity is one of our greatest opportunities. 
A diverse workforce brings with it new knowledge, experience and creativity; key assets for a business 
that is at the forefront of the UK waste and recycling industry’s transformation.

SUEZ recycling and recovery UK has long championed the importance of promoting diversity and wellbeing 
and consider it to be an essential component of our business. 

The SUEZ 2017-2021 roadmap sets out our diversity aspirations and the measures used to gauge success, 
including our group-wide objective of 33% of management positions being filled by women by 2021.

To promote gender diversity and inclusion at SUEZ recycling and recovery UK, we launched our 
SUEZ UK Women’s Network, which is open to all employees, in March 2017. 

This report sets out the information that we are required to publish under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap information) Regulations 2017. 

In this report, we provide the statutory reporting information for SUEZ recycling and recovery UK, 
which is the only one of SUEZ Recycling and Recovery UK Ltd’s operating company brands to employ 
250 or more employees. 

The statistics contained in this report were compiled using standard methodologies set out by 
the Regulations with reference to the ACAS guidelines. The statistics are based on a snapshot 
date of 05 April 2017. Compilation of the data was overseen by SUEZ recycling and recovery UK’s 
principal employment lawyer.

SUEZ RECYCLING AND RECOVERY UK                                                        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                                       GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2016-17   |   2

the gender pay gap

-11.1%
MEAN GENDER PAY GAP

-7%
MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP

In relation to pay, our mean and median measures show negative 
gender pay gaps (average pay for women is greater than average pay 
for men). This is mainly a result of the structure of our workforce and 
the breakdown of roles within the company.

Historically, the waste and recycling industry has employed   
predominately male workers and that remains the case today.             
This is reflected at SUEZ recycling and recovery UK, where 84.8% of 
our total workforce is male. This large pool of workers is distributed 
across all pay bands from the lowest to the highest, with 93.5% of our 
manual workforce and 76.7% of our senior managers (hay grades 8-1)             
being male.

In contrast, women make up 15.2% of our workforce. While the 
number of women working in the company is smaller than the number 
of men, proportionally more women work in mid-level managerial or 
professional roles than men. These roles attract higher than average 
rates of pay. 

As a result, when looking at our workforce as a whole, the mean and 
median average pay for women is greater than that for men.

TOTAL WORKFORCE

15.2%

84.8%

Men

Women

SUEZ recycling and recovery UK undertakes measures to ensure that 
men and women receive equal pay for equal work, so the gaps are not 
indicative of an issue with equal pay. 

Our negative mean and median gender pay gap may be viewed as 
encouraging when compared to the positive double-digit gender 
pay gaps that are widely reported within the UK. However, in order 
to meet targets set by our parent company, there is still more to 
do to advance gender diversity at SUEZ recycling and recovery UK.               
This is an area of focus for us, and, as well as stretching targets,        
we use working groups and networks that include employees of all 
levels to drive our agenda forward. 

SUEZ RECYCLING AND RECOVERY UK                                                        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                                       GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2016-17   |   3

pay quartiles by gender

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

13.8%

13.2%

13.7%

20.2%

86.2%

86.8%

86.3%

79.8%

Men

Women

Men

Women

Men

Women

Men

Women

This data shows how our female and male employees are        
distributed through four pay quartiles, ranging from lower to upper. 
This information was produced by listing all employees from lowest 
to highest hourly rates and dividing the employees into four equal 
quartile groups. The proportion of men and women in each quartile 
was then calculated. 

The higher proportion of women in the upper quartile reflects 
the higher proportion of women in professional and mid-level 
management jobs. The splits across all quartiles are representative 
of our overall male to female ratio of 85:15.

SUEZ RECYCLING AND RECOVERY UK                                                        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                                       GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2016-17   |   4

bonus gender pay gap

-1.8%
MEAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP

-18.7%
MEDIAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP

PROPORTION OF MALES RECEIVING A BONUS
72.7% did        27.3% did not

PROPORTION OF FEMALES RECEIVING A BONUS
85% did        15% did not

Our bonus gender pay gap data was produced for the reporting year 
of April 2016 to April 2017. It sets out the differences in the mean and 
median of the bonus paid to men and women, as well as the proportion 
of men and women that received a bonus during this period. 

Bonus payments are not limited to an annual bonus scheme, but include 
performance-related bonus payments, long-term incentive plans, deferred 
bonuses and bonuses in the form of share allocations. Bonus payments 
also include work-related incentive payments to our manual workforce.

Our mean gender bonus pay gap is relatively low at -1.8%, with the mean 
bonus payment being just slightly higher for women than that for men. 
This figure suggests a balance between the bonus payments made to 
men and women. 

71% of our female workforce work in professional and mid-level 
managerial roles, and roles of this level are often linked to a 
bonus scheme. This is balanced out by the large number of male 
employees that receive bonus payments, including work-related 
incentive payments to manual employees, who make up 93.5% of  
our workforce. This is reinforced by the data showing the proportion 
of males and females receiving a bonus. 

The median bonus payment was higher for women than that for men. 
Again, this can be attributed to the contrast between the 71% of women 
working in professional and mid-level managerial roles, which generally 
have greater bonus-earning opportunities, and the range of bonus 
payments made to the larger male workforce. 

statement of accuracy
I confirm the data in this report is accurate.

Signed for and on behalf of SUEZ recycling and recovery UK

Kevan Sproul
HR Director
SUEZ recycling and recovery UK

SUEZ RECYCLING AND RECOVERY UK                                                        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                                       GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2016-17   |   5

SUEZ recycling and recovery UK
SUEZ House, Grenfell Road
Maidenhead, Berkshire  SL6 1ES

www.suez.co.uk

