Gender Pay Gap Report: April 2017

We Believe in 
Growth

MVF was founded in 2009 by five friends 
who brought together tech expertise and 
a deep understanding of digital marketing 
to develop a smarter, data-led approach to 
customer generation.

In addition to their ambition to transform  
the industry, MVF’s founders were committed 
to building a company which is accountable 
to its employees; providing career 
opportunities and an inspiring workplace. 

This has underpinned the business from   
the start and is central to MVF today.

MVF employs more than 400 people 
globally in roles across technology, digital 
marketing, sales, data analysis, publishing 
and customer service. We recognise that       
a diverse, equal opportunity workplace 
is vital to fostering innovation, and that 
bringing together a range of different skills 
and perspectives is essential to growth.

MVF’s Gender Pay Gap Analysed
Across all MVF employees, the mean (average) hourly pay rate of female employees was 19.1% 
lower than that of males. The pay gap between the median (middle-most) female and male 
employees was 12.6%.

This pay gap is due to MVF employing proportionately fewer women in our most highly paid 
roles, predominantly within sales, technology and leadership.

Mean Pay Gap by Pay Band Quartiles
for the month of April 2017

Mean Pay Gap by Quartile*

1%

2%

-2%

16%

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

Female

UPPER MIDDLE
Male

UPPER

35% female 
employees

47% female 
employees

37% female 
employees

23% female 
employees

Gender Mix by Quartile

Within the first three pay bands (Lower, Lower 
Middle, Middle Upper) there is a negligible 
pay gap and women earn more than men 
in the Middle Upper pay band. Women 
represent between 35% and 47% of the 
employees in each of these bands.

However, in the Upper pay band, only 23% 
of employees are female, and the average 
female salary is 16% less than the average 
male salary in this band. These higher 
paid roles at MVF are mainly within sales, 
technology and leadership.

*MVF’s overall mean gender pay gap at 19.1%, is higher than the gap in any of the four pay quartiles, because there are proportionately fewer 
women in the Upper band, and the overall mean gender pay gap is an average across all quartiles

Gender Parity
Improving the gender pay gap within the Upper pay band is a key area of focus for us. Some of 
the actions we are taking to address gender disparity in the Upper pay band include: 

•  working to increase the number of qualified female applicants for sales and technology roles 

through innovative, targeted recruitment. Today we typically see significantly more male 
applicants for these roles, and 

• 

encouraging female employees who have the relevant skills to become Heads of 
Department, Directors and C-Suite through development opportunities, which are available 
to everyone across MVF. 

Bonuses
45.1% of male MVF employees and 36.8%     
of female MVF employees received bonuses 
during the 12 months to April 2017.

Across all of MVF, the mean (average) 
bonus paid to female employees over the 
12 months to April 2017 was 51.9% lower 
than that paid to male employees. The 
median bonus pay difference was 60.9%. 
These figures include bonuses, allowances,          
and commissions.

Almost all bonuses were earned within our 
sales and contact centre teams and all are 
calculated based on objective performance 
measures.

Improving the gender bonus gap is another 
priority for MVF. We are focusing on making 
roles within these higher bonus-earning 
teams more open to women. We are also 
continuing  to regularly review bonus 
schemes to ensure that they solicit and 
reward the right behaviours, regardless         
of gender. 

Building a Balanced Future
Some of MVF’s core business functions 
are typically male dominated industries, 
like technology and sales, so we recognise         
we need to work hard to ensure we attract 
more female applicants. We already offer                 
a range of benefits for both men and women 
including a family-first policy, generous 
parental leave schemes, and flexible working 
options. We are committed to continuing 
to do more to attract and retain women           
in these types of roles.
We are also committed to supporting  
women’s career progression, both into senior 
managerial roles and as technical specialists 
in their fields. Our internal Management 
Development Academy (MDA) has nurtured 
the ambitions of all of our managers, 
providing new opportunities for personal  
and professional growth.

In 2017, 47% of MDA graduates were 
female, and current enrolments              
for 2018 are 41% female, giving us 
confidence in an improved gender 
balance among our future leaders.

The MDA also provides training in diversity, 
inclusion and equality, ensuring our 
managers are aligned with our ambitions    
in creating a balanced workplace.

Attract

Support

Educate

Our Remuneration Committee exists            
to oversee salary increases and promotions 
taking a ‘whole of business’ point of view, 
giving us the opportunity to proactively 
address parity issues to ensure fairness and 
that career progression within the business  
is meritocratic.

MVF recognises the importance of gender 
pay gap reporting, and the need to ensure 
there is no gender bias in any of our 
decision-making processes. It is inspiring     
to see UK businesses working together on 
this issue. 

While there is work to do individually, it is 
vital we work as a collective to bring about 
lasting change.  

We are proud to see that our initiatives 
aimed at achieving gender balance at all 
levels has created positive momentum in 
this direction, and with the ongoing support 
of our people, hope to see this reflected in 
our reporting in the future.

Michael Teixeira
CEO

Notes
We have followed the government guidelines to calculate this data. This means that employees’ hourly rate of pay is 
their annual gross salary represented as an hourly rate. The hourly rate of pay includes any bonuses paid in April 2017 
prorated to one month and relevant pay reductions for salary sacrifice schemes or working part-time hours. Data 
excludes the salary of any employees on statutory maternity, paternity or sick leave during April 2017 and also excludes 
any overtime earned by employees during this month. This report does not compare what a man and a woman are 
paid for doing the same job. Rather, it’s the comparison of average salary from a list of all male salaries and all female 
salaries. The pay gap is the difference between the average male salary and the average female salary.

mvfglobal.com

