 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

2017 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bedales School is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report.  This is our report for 
the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 
 
Understanding the gender pay gap 
 
The gender pay gap measures the difference between men and women’s earnings at Bedales School 
by expressing women’s pay as a percentage of men’s pay. This is different to equal pay. Equal pay 
refers to men and women receiving equal pay for equal work.  In this report, we are sharing our 
gender pay gap data for the 12 months to April 2017 and to calculate our gender pay gap, we have 
taken the pay data of all staff employed by Bedales. 
 
 
 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap 
 
 
 
 
Median Gender Pay Gap 
 
 
 
 
 
Bonus: Mean 
 
 
 
 
Bonus: Median  
 
 
 
 
Proportion of men who received a bonus 
 
 
Proportion of women who received a bonus   
 
 
* UK national mean gender pay gap is 17.4% and median gender pay gap is 18.4% (Office of National Statistics) 
 
Pay quartiles by gender 
 

 
 
            
 
 
            
 
            
 
 
             
 
 
            
 
 
            

13.82% 
 
13.18% 

 
17.76% 

-18.73% 

37.87% 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   0% 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

B 

C 

27.83% 

72.17% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
at or below the lower quartile 

31.03% 

68.97% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

25.86% 

74.14% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

D 

46.55% 

53.45% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them 
above the upper quartile 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Bedales School’s Gender Pay Gap 

For the same role, regardless of gender, all our hourly paid staff are paid the same hourly rate and 
premium hourly rate. The pay for all other posts is regulated within set salary scales based on the roles 
& responsibilities of the post and not the gender of the person.  

Bedales School is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and 
women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles 
in which men and women work within the school and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Our analysis showed that the gap is largely driven by four factors:  
 
• A larger proportion of female staff are in part time and/or term time only work than male colleagues. 
The school offers more opportunities for staff looking to work “school friendly” hours than other 
employers and there is a female gender bias from individuals seeking these opportunities.  
• The School employs a significantly higher number of females than males and male staff are more 
likely to be in the upper middle and upper pay quartiles hence the higher median pay gap percentage. 
The high proportion of women who work in job roles at the lower end of the pay range within the 
school has the effect of skewing the mean and median figures. 
• More men are employed in full-time, higher paid professional, technical and skilled occupations 
than employed in lower skilled / lower paid posts within the school. 
• There is a more even proportion of men and women at a senior management level which 
suggests that there is not an issue with women progressing or being appointed to the most senior 
positions in the school. 

Bonus gap 

Bonus payments are paid on merit.  There was an equal distribution of payment between both male 
and female staff and the amounts paid were on average the same regardless of gender. 

Actions taken to date 
 
Our goal is to support and help our staff by providing them with the flexibility, skills and reward to 
progress and develop and achieve their ambitions. To that end, the actions we have taken so far are: 

• 

Increased pay for lower skilled jobs above statutory minimum to the Living Wage (effective 
from 1 April 2016) 

•  Continuing to offer ‘family friendly’ hours of work and flexible working arrangements to 

attract and retain carers of either gender 
Improved family friendly policies and pay 

• 
•  Reviewed teachers’ pay scale to link progression more specifically to skills and career 

development, rather than years of experience in the profession (effective from 1 September 
2018)  

  
I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 
 Director and Chairman of the Board of Governors 

 

