 

 
 
 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
The Equality Act 2010 requires organisations with more than 250 staff to report on their gender pay 
gap. Heidelberg Graphic Equipment Ltd strongly supports the rights of equal pay regardless of 
gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment, race, religion or 
belief, disability, pregnancy or maternity and age. Our Company is committed to promoting equality 
of opportunity for all employees, workers and job applicants.  

 

The analysis for Gender Pay Gap illustrates the difference between men’s and women’s average 
earnings across the organisation. All figures have been reached using the mechanisms that are set 
out in the gender pay gap reporting legislations.  
  
 
Pay gap based on 5 April 2017 snapshot 

 
The pay gap is 21.6% at the mean1 and 13.9% at the median2.  The mean gender pay gap cited by the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) is 18.1%. 
 
Hourly Rate  
 
Mean 

Median 

 

21.6% 

13.9% 

 
The quartile pay bands3 show that females do not have a high presence in the upper quartiles and 
both the industry and our Company need to continue to promote female job applications.    
 
Proportion of male and female employees by quartile pay 
 
 
Upper quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Lower quartile 
 
 

Female 
3.2% 
11.1% 
17.5% 
28.6% 

96.8% 
88.9% 
82.5% 
71.4% 

Male 

                                                           

1 Mean: a comparison of the average pay for a woman and the average pay for a man. 
2 Median: a comparison of the ‘middle’ pay for a woman if all pay amounts were sorted from low to 
high and the ‘middle’ pay for a man. The median is less impacted by outlier numbers (very high or 
very low) than the mean. 
3 Quartile pay bands: a comparison of men and women broken down into four equal quartiles 
ranging from the highest paid to the lowest paid.   

1 

 
Bonus gap based on 12 months preceding 5 April  

 
The bonus gap is 91.4% at the mean4 and 24.9% at the median5. This is due to females not having a 
significant presence in the upper quartiles. 
 
Bonus gap 
Mean 

Median 

91.4% 

24.9% 

 
Proportion of male and females receiving bonus pay  
 
Male 

Female  

100% 

100% 

 
 
Heidelberg Graphic Equipment Ltd is a major supplier to the printing industry which has historically 
had a significantly higher proportion of male employees, particularly in production and engineering 
roles. 
 
The majority of our employees are engaged in technical activities, including mechanical and 
electrical engineering, software systems and printing.  Many of these technical positions involve 
unsocial working hours to ensure a comprehensive service to our customers and this is reflected 
within the salaries of these employees.  We are an equal opportunity employer although the vast 
majority seeking training and employment within these engineering and printing disciplines have 
been male rather than female. In recruiting our own apprentices we have ourselves found this to be 
the case.  When recruiting employees with established training and experience, including those 
engaged in direct selling where printing and print industry experience are essential, the candidates 
for the positions are almost without exception male. To overcome this we attend trade body and 
recruitment fairs and we look to actively encourage female recruits to our engineering 
apprenticeships. 
 
As a company we traditionally have a high staff retention rate and, therefore, low turnover of 
employees, reflecting the working conditions and pay rates provided.  Within non-printing and 
engineering associated positions females are better represented within the staff numbers and, 
indeed, are often the majority.  These positions are set within a salary framework which is applied 
meritocratically and females are often the highest earners, reflecting their experience and abilities. 
 
I confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with mandatory 
requirements. 
 

Gerard Heanue, Managing Director 
                                                           

 

4 Mean: a comparison of the average bonus for a woman and the average bonus for a man.  
5 Median: a comparison of the ‘middle’ bonus for a woman if all pay amounts were sorted from low 
to high and the ‘middle’ bonus for a man. 

2 

