 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
From April 2018 Regulations require larger employers to analyse and report  their Gender Pay Gap 
which involves calculating and comparing average rates of pay for male and female employees.  It is 
not a comparison of pay rates for men and women doing the same work, work rated as equivalent 
or work of equal value. The Regulations apply to all organisations with 250 or more relevant 
employees as at 5th April 2017 and require a snapshot of the pay data at that date.  

The key figures at the Royal Hospital School (RHS) for 5th April 2017 are shown in the table below:- 

 

At RHS the Gender Pay Gap reflects the average paid to men and women regardless of their specific 
roles and in order to better understand the headline figures we have set out the Gender Pay Gap 
relating to Teaching Staff and Support Staff separately. 
Women make up the majority of our workforce (60%) and hold a significant proportion of senior 
positions, however 68% of our female employees work as Support Staff with 29% employed as 
cleaners and laundry staff attracting lower hourly pay rates and this materially impacts both the 
Mean and Median headline calculations. In many schools such activities are contracted out to 
external service providers and were that to be the case at RHS the Mean Pay Gap would be 13% and 
the Median Pay Gap would be 27% (and the number of employees would then fall below the 250 
reporting threshold). 

RHS is committed to treating all staff, male and female, equally when considering pay and conditions 
within job roles to ensure that all staff receive a fair and competitive rate of pay for the work which 
they do. Furthermore as part of our strategic aim of adopting a highly effective approach for 
recruiting, retaining, developing and rewarding our staff we regularly review our salary bandings for 
our teaching staff and benchmark pay for our support staff. 
 
We aim to ensure that pay is set according to the complexity of the work being undertaken, 
regardless of gender, and we believe that our Gender Pay Gap is largely explained by the wide 
diversity of roles in our workforce and our decision to keep our cleaning and laundry staff in house 
rather than to outsource that work. However we also acknowledge that in some part it reflects 
societal and systemic trends which impact on women progressing to higher paid roles and in that 
respect the School will continue to be mindful of how future decisions relating to pay and conditions 
may impact on the Gender Pay Gap.  
 
I confirm that the calculations are an accurate representation of our Gender Pay Gap as at 5th April 
2017. 
 
 
 
Anthony McNiff 
Director of Finance and Operations 

