GENDER PAY GAP 

REPORT 2017

Introduction

Ramside Estates Limited is is committed to encouraging equality and diversity among our
workforce, and eliminating discrimination.

Our aim is for our workforce to be truly representative of all sections of society and our customers,
and for each person to be truly valued and feel respected regardless of gender.

We recognise that gender in itself is not as simple as referring to men and women, however these
results are in line with the related legislative requirements.

Here is our Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 and the actions we are taking in our commitment to
support women within our Company.

What is the Gender Pay Gap?

A gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the average pay of men and women. These
figures represent the gap across the whole of Ramside Estates Ltd, regardless of role. This is different
from ‘Equal Pay’ which is the difference in pay between men and women who carry out the same
or similar jobs.

If all our employees were lined up in a male line and a female line in order of lowest hourly rate of
pay to highest, the Median Gender Pay Gap compares the hourly rate of the male in the middle of
their line with the pay of the middle female.

The other measure is Mean Gender Pay Gap, which shows the difference in the average hourly
rate of pay between men and women.

Our Results
Pay Hourly Rate

Bonus Payment
Bonus Payment
Proportion
of males
Proportion
of males
females receiving a bonus
females receiving a bonus

and
and

7.2 %

8.7%

Female

Male

Difference Between
Men and Women
Gender Pay Gap

Median
(middle)
0%

Mean
(average)

National UK

11%

18.4% Median 17.4% Mean

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile

Pay Quartiles

Bonus Gap

Difference
Men and Women

Between

Gender Bonus Gap

Median
(middle)

93%

Mean

(average)

77%

Our Aim

To create a culture of gender parity that recognises the value of every employee in
developing our business

Across approximately 500 employees, the gender balance of our workforce is reasonably evenly
balanced at 57% men and 43% women.

Analysis of the employee population reveals a difference in the proportion of men and women in
different functional areas of the business. The largest impact on the gender bonus gap and mean
pay gap is reflective of men populating the significant amount of customer facing management
and chef positions.

We are committed to:
•

Review all
developing and retaining a diverse talent pool

recruitment and succession planning practices to ensure we are attracting,

•

•

•

•

Better understand the difference in hours worked by men and women within the business and
the flexible working opportunities that exist in all roles

Look at the opportunities to be rewarded by bonus in all
transparent bonus structure that rewards performance excellence across the business

roles and create a fair and

Provide education and training for all employees on the value of equality and diversity within
the workplace

2017 figures suggest 1 in 4 chefs in the UK are now female; we aim to work with colleges to
attract more females into our kitchens

