    ECL  Menu       Your Services    Community hubs    Hubs for adults with Learning Disabilities    Hubs for older people    Personal support in the community and at home    Care at home    Short term support in the community    Reablement at home    Community Reablement Service in West Sussex    Equipment for the home    Work Based Training    Sensory services    How to access our services    Our Locations    Community hubs    Work based training    Care at home    Other    About Us    Who We Are    Our Story    ECL Board    Annual Reports    CQC Reports    Latest News    Media Area    Events    Past Events    Blog    Careers    Current vacancies    Types of jobs at ECL    Why work for us?    Our People    Volunteering    Contact Us   Search:      You are here Home About Us Latest News Media Area Rise of the resting dragon Published: 13th April 2018 31 years on the job and not one sick day Jean Hague, a care worker with Essex Cares Ltd (ECL) has worked for the company since 1987 looking after hundreds of people without taking one day’s sick leave. Published: 22nd March 2018 New personalised transport scheme launches to support older people Scheme to help older people access day care services in Colchester, Clacton and surrounding areas, providing a private transport service. Published: 6th March 2018 Adults with learning disabilities showcase talents in the heart of Colchester Essex Cares Ltd. (ECL) are showcasing the talents of adults with learning disabilities this month (January) by exhibiting their wide range of original paintings at Colchester Library. Published: 24th January 2018 Outstanding results for ECL across the board in recent CQC inspection Following inspections by the CQC at the end of 2017, three Essex regions have transformed their CQC ratings in just one year. In each region they have been assessed as "Good" and "Outstanding". Published: 11th January 2018 21st Century Braille I learnt Braille at 23 and passed my grade 2 braille exam with a story about the 'Sex Life of the Highland Haggis', although my tutor was amused, I still took time to find only two mistakes I made. Published: 4th January 2018  1 2 3 4   Facebook     Twitter     YouTube   Site Accessibility Privacy & Cookies Terms Sitemap Modern Day Slavery  Copyright © 2018 Essex Cares Limited. All rights reserved. Site by Enovate .   Your Services    Our Locations    About Us    Careers    Contact Us        