 

 
Gender Pay Gap Statement 
 
As  part  of  the  Equality  Act  2010  Regulations  2016  any  employer  with  250  or  more 
employees  is  required  to  publish  statutory  calculations  each  year,  to  highlight  the 
differences in pay between their male and female employees.  
 
Organisations  are  also  required  to  post  their  calculations  on  the  government’s  official 
website, www.gov.uk. 

Equal Pay 

It is important to make the distinction between equal pay and gender pay gap.  Equal pay 
is set out by law and employers must give men and women equal treatment in the terms 
and conditions of their employment contract if they are employed to do: 

• 

'like work' – work that is the same or broadly similar 

•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation study  

•  work found to be of equal value in terms of effort, skill or decision making. 

At Trust we have a fixed pay structure and every role is paid the same regardless of the 
gender of the post holder. 

Gender Pay Gap 

The  gender  pay  gap  however  is  a  measure  of  the  difference  between  the  average 
earnings of men and women across an organisation and is expressed as a percentage of 
men’s earnings.   
 
As part of the regulations Trust must calculate the gender pay gap in hourly pay, as both a: 
 

•  Mean figure (the difference between the average of men’s and women’s pay) 

 

•  Median  figure  (the  difference  between  the  midpoints  in  the  ranges  of  men’s  and 

women’s pay) 

 
The  Office  of  National  Statistics  reported  that  the  overall  mean  figure  of  the  gender  pay 
gap in the UK for 2016 was 18.1%. 
 
This will be the first year that Trust will report gender pay gap figures and these were taken 
on  the  required  snapshot  date  of  5  April  2017.    Going  forward  we  will  publish  updated 
results annually. 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

Trust’s Gender Pay Gap Figures 
 

Reported 
figures 

Comparison figures 

 

Trust overall 

Office 
staff 

Management 
Team 

What is the difference in the mean pay (average) 
of men and women, expressed as a percentage? 

24.6% 

4.3% 

-11.5% 

 
What is the difference in the median pay  (middle 
point  of  the  salary  scale)  of  men  and  women, 
expressed as a percentage? 

 
4.1% 

 
What  is  the  proportion  of  men  and  women  who 
received bonus pay? 

 
None 

 
What  is  the  difference  in  the  mean  bonus  of  full 
received  men  and  women,  expressed  as  a 
percentage? 

 
n/a 

 
What is the difference in the median bonus of full 
received  men  and  women,  expressed  as  a 
percentage? 

 
n/a 

 

10.3% 

 

None 

 

n/a 

 

n/a 

 
-11.8% 

 
None 

 
n/a 

 
n/a 

What  is  the  proportion  of  full  pay  men  and  women  in  each  of  the  4  pay  quartiles  (1  = 
lowest paid – 4 = highest paid), expressed as a percentage? 
 

Males %  Female % 

 
Pay Band 1 

8.9% 

91.1% 

Pay Band 2 

13.3% 

86.7% 

Pay Band 3 

10.4% 

89.6% 

Pay Band 4 

25.2% 

74.8% 

 
Understanding the figures 
 
Trust  employs  significantly  more  female  staff  (86%)  than  men  (14%),  and  female 
employees are represented as the majority across all areas and levels of our organisation. 
For  example,  currently  our  senior  executive  team  is  made  up  of  four  members,  three  of 
whom are female including the Chief Executive. 
 
Our figures show that overall the mean pay gap at Trust is 24.6% - the average salary for 
men is a quarter more than the average salary for women.  Many of the reasons for this 
relate to the sector in which we operate, in particular, the general rates of pay for care and 
support workers and the use of flexible and part-time contracts.  
 
Included above are comparison figures which demonstrate how the gender pay gap differs 
for (1) office staff and (2) the management team against the organisation as a whole.  

 
The Trust Board and senior management welcome the transparent approach to assessing 
pay differences between male and female employees. We are committed to understanding 
further  the  reasons  for  the  gender  pay  gap  within  the  organisation.  Throughout  the  next 
year we will investigate ways in which we can meaningfully address the gap going forward 
which may include lobbying for greater equality for those on the lowest wages in the sector 
we operate in. 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Heather Pearson 

Chair of the Trust Board  
Trust Housing Association 

Rhona McLeod 
Chief Executive 

Trust Housing Association 

 

 

