GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017
DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTD

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDINTRODUCTION.

PETER LOVETT
CHAIRMAN

“OUR PURPOSE IS TO PROVIDE 
EXCEPTIONAL SERVICE TO  
ALL OF OUR  CUSTOMERS. TO 
ENSURE THAT WE DO SO, WE 
RECRUIT PEOPLE WITH THE 
RIGHT ATTITUDE AND SKILLS 
REGARDLESS OF AGE, SEX OR 
CREED.” 

MESSAGE FROM SARAH TURNER
HEAD OF PERSONNEL

Dick Lovett is a family-owned business representing some of the 
most prestigious automotive brands within the industry. We pride 
ourselves on having some of the best people in the business 
and we actively encourage anyone to join us who has the right 
attitude, and a real passion and talent for customer service.
With over 850 employees, ranging from 16 to 85 years old, in 
a variety of roles, we embrace the Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
Regulations as it will give us focus to actively recruit more 
females at a senior level and to continue with our flexible working 
initiatives, with the aim of recruiting and retaining more female 
employees.
Whilst it is positive that our Gender Pay Gap is lower than the 
UK national average and most of our competitors, it is important 
not to get too hung up on the numbers. We would never try to 
fit people into jobs to influence statistics; we would rather use 
the numbers to prompt questions and actions as to how we can 
continually improve the way we work.     

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDUNDERSTANDING THE GENDER PAY GAP

What is the Gender Pay Gap?
 
A Gender Pay Gap is a measure of the difference in the average pay 
between all men and women in an organisation. This is regardless 
of the work that they do and it can be driven by the numbers of men 
and women within the organisation. 

One of the main reasons for the Gender Pay Gap in our organisation 
is that women historically have been under represented at senior 
levels and in the demographics of our total workforce.  
This is something we are aware of and consequently have been 
reviewing as part of our talent strategy.

It is completely different to Equal Pay Comparisons, which 
involves direct comparison between men and women 
who carry out the same job, similar jobs or work of equal 
value.  

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDUNDERSTANDING THE GENDER PAY GAP DATA

How are Median and Mean Gaps Calculated?
•  Using the calculations set out in the Gender Pay Gap Reporting  

Regulations we take pay data for the whole of our workforce. 

•  We then look at the middle point of hourly pay for all of our male 
staff compared to the middle point of hourly pay for all of our 
female staff. The Median Pay Gap is the difference in pay of these 
two comparisons. 

•  Using the same calculations, we look at the average hourly rate of 
all our male members of staff and compare them to the average 
hourly rate of all our female members of staff; the difference in the 
averages is The Mean Pay Gap.

•  The Median and Mean calculations are also carried out when 

comparing bonus pay over a twelve month period. The proportion 
of men and women awarded Bonus Pay over that period is also 
reported. 

•  Finally, we share the percentage of males and females in each Pay 
Quartile. Quartiles are calculated by listing the rates of pay for each 
member of staff across the business from lowest to highest, before 
splitting that list into four equal-sized groups and calculating the 
percentage of males and females in each. 

Please note: Calculations of Median Pay, Mean Pay and of Quartile Pay 
Bands are based on data from April 2017 only.     

The Median

Lowest 
Paid

Highest  
Paid

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDOUR RESULTS IN 2017 

Pay Hourly Rate

Median

Mean

Dick Lovett
10.3%

12.4%

UK Average* 
18.4%

17.4%

Bonus Pay 
83% of our staff received a bonus; of our total staff, 86% 
male and 76% female received a bonus.

Chart	Title

*Based on information from the National Statistics Office in 2016
Pay Quartiles

Chart	Title

Chart	Title

1

2

1

2

1

2

Chart	Title

1

2

30%

28%

25%

70%

72%

75%

Lower 
Middle 
Quartile

Upper
Middle 
Quartile

Lower
Quartile

Male
Female

11%

89%

Upper
Quartile

Bonus pay difference between Male and Female:
Median  
Mean 
 
Bonus is not awarded to some roles e.g. Accounts, 
Personnel, Reception Teams – most of these teams are 
female, similarly our senior teams are predominantly male. 

64%
47%

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDTHE DETAIL BEHIND THE DATA

The Motor Industry historically has been a male-dominated environment, 
with a reputation that you could either be a Technician working in a 
dirty workshop or you could go into Sales which has not had the most 
desirable reputation.
We are working very hard to change things and with the advent of 
electrification of cars and the digital world becoming ever more 
prevalent, we are starting to see a shift in the interest of our applicants 
and we are beginning to be seen as an exciting industry to work in.
The data we have used for this report is based on a headcount of 740 
people – 556 of these were males and only 174 females, therefore the 
demographics of our workforce is 76.5% Male and 24.5% Female. This 
does have an effect on the results of our Gender Pay Gap, although 
there is female representation at a senior level on the Operational 
Management Board, thus female representation is 20% of that Board.   
Bonus and Commission is an integral part of our Sales Executives and 
Technicians pay – and again this has impacted on our mean and median 
results for bonus. It is also worth noting that all of our Heads of Business 
are currently male and that all four of our Directors are male and this also 
has a significant impact on the results. All of our Apprentices are male 
and they are at the lower-end of our pay scales, whilst the middle quartile 
sees many roles occupied with females e.g. Receptionists, Accounts 
Assistants, Personnel and Marketing - again due to historical roles. 
However, things are changing but this will take a while to filter through 
- for example, we have now appointed three female Accountants and a 
female Aftersales Manager; roles which historically would probably have 
been filled by a male. This is in-line with our talent strategy. 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDOUR COMMITMENT TO UNLOCKING FUTURE TALENT

A number of activities have already started - for example, we have already 
started to appoint females in more senior roles and we have identified the 
following areas that we can review annually: 
Leadership and development: We have introduced a Management 
Leadership Programme where future talent is gaining knowledge for more 
senior roles, with a diverse section of people attending. Access for all to 
apply to go onto the course.
Recruitment: The appointment of females to Sales Managers, Aftersales 
Managers, Retail Managers and Accountants – we are continually looking at 
how we can accommodate flexible working at a senior level.
Flexible working: We now say “how can we make this work” rather than “we 
can’t accommodate that flexible working request”. Things like the buying 
and selling of holidays also helps with childcare cover.
Talent Pool: More focus on finding talent in schools, continuing to grow our 
own people and investing in anyone who shows the commitment in areas 
prudent to our family business. These include customer service, interaction 
and a natural flair to succeed. 
Apprentices: We are looking to increase our range of Apprenticeships 
to encourage more females into our industry. There are some exciting 
opportunities with all types of different roles; an area we are focusing on.
Pay: Continuous review of how we pay people - whilst we have an annual 
review of pay and positions, this does not stop us continually reviewing and 
amending throughout the year. We have total focus on paying people for 
the role that they do, not for what sex they are. This is lived and breathed 
throughout the Company.

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDSUMMARY STATEMENT

We are very proud of what we do here at Dick Lovett and we live 
by our mission statement of “Customer Satisfaction Through Staff 
Satisfaction”. We believe that the annual reporting of the Gender Pay 
Gap will allow us to continually review how we are doing.  
As a family business, we understand the demands that the everyday 
world puts upon parents and carers, and we are committed to 
continually looking at how we can make our working life more 
flexible and family-friendly; allowing females to be considered for 
more senior roles, and furthermore, how females enter our working 
environment.
We do acknowledge that we cannot change the history of this 
industry in a moment and we therefore may not see quick wins in the 

statistics overnight. However, we are committed to laying foundations 
in offering an environment that provides opportunity for all.
This report covers employees of Dick Lovett (Specialist Cars) Ltd, 
incorporating all of the franchises that we represent. As the Head of 
Personnel, I, Sarah Turner, can confirm that the information contained 
herein is accurate.

Sarah Turner Chartered FCIPD
Head of Personnel
Dick Lovett (Specialist Cars) Ltd

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTDDick Lovett (Specialist Cars) Ltd
Registered Office:  
The Copse,  
Frankland Road,  
Blagrove,  
Swindon, 
Wiltshire,
SN5 8YW

Incorporated and registered in England & Wales, under Company No: 2567241

www.dicklovett.co.uk

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017DICK LOVETT (SPECIALIST CARS) LTD