The bank
for a changing
world

BNP PARIBAS LONDON BRANCH
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

“

Diversity  is  a  business  imperative.  It  fosters  better  decision  making,  enriches  our  talent  pool  and 
drives innovation. A cornerstone of BNP Paribas’ diversity agenda is gender equality. This gender pay 
gap report shows that we have significant room for improvement and the drive to make a difference.

In plain terms, the report shows that BNP Paribas London Branch, which consists predominantly 
of Corporate and Institutional Banking, has both a gender pay gap and a gender bonus gap. We are 
committed to addressing this. To do so, we need more women in senior, front-office and technical 
roles. We have initiatives, both in place and planned, to drive the change we need. And while such 
change will not happen overnight, happen it will thanks to the collective and sustained effort from 

all of us at BNP Paribas, from across our industry and from society as a whole.“

Anne Marie Verstraeten    UK Country Head BNP Paribas Group

Understanding the gender pay gap
Is the gender pay gap the same as equal pay? 
No. They are two separate matters, as explained below.

What is the gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap concerns the hourly pay of all men who work in 
a company compared to the hourly pay of all women who work in the 
same company. It does not account for different types of jobs or levels 
of seniority.

What is equal pay?
Equal pay is when a man and a woman are paid the same for doing the 
same or similar work. We take our moral and legal responsibilities on 
equal pay seriously, and conduct reviews regularly to ensure salary and 
bonus decisions are fair and gender neutral. 

How we calculate the mean difference

Total salaries 
for females

No. of female 
employees

Mean female
average pay

THE

DIFFERENCE 

=

Mean male
average pay

MEAN HOURLY PAY GAP

Total salaries 
for males

No. of male 
employees

How we calculate the median difference

Lowest 
hourly pay

Median  
hourly pay

Highest  
hourly pay

Lowest 
hourly pay

Median  
hourly pay

Highest  
hourly pay

THE

DIFFERENCE 

=

MEDIAN HOURLY PAY GAP

The bank
for a changing
world

There are two main reasons for the gender pay gap, both across the financial services 
industry and here at BNP Paribas London Branch: 
£  There  are  more  men  than  women  in  senior  positions,  and  women  are  under-

represented in front-office and technical roles. 

£  The higher rates of pay that senior, front-office and technical roles attract, relative 
to other positions, significantly increases the average male pay both in the market 
and at BNP Paribas London Branch. 

Overall, we have significantly higher mean and median bonus gaps than hourly pay gaps. 
This is because:
£  Bonus amounts tend to increase with seniority and we currently have more men 

than women in senior roles.

£  We have more men than women in front-office and technical roles, which typically 

attract larger bonus opportunities.

£  A larger proportion of our part-time employees are women. The calculation for the 
bonus gap does not account for bonuses being pro-rated for part-time employees.

Proportion of each gender receiving a bonus 
Women receiving  

Men receiving  
a bonus

a bonus

Results
Gender pay gap

Our mean  

hourly pay gap

38.3%

Gender bonus gap

Our mean  
bonus gap

64.6%

Our median  

hourly pay gap

32.2%

Our median 
bonus gap

60%

Population by quartile 
Pay quartiles are calculated by ranking the hourly pay of all staff, then splitting the range  
into four equal quartiles and calculating the proportion of men and women in each quartile. 
The higher proportion of men in the upper quartiles reflects the fact that there are more men  
than women in senior positions, front-office and technical roles, which attract higher rates of pay.

Lower

Lower middle

51%

49%

32%

68%

91.2%

93%

Upper middle

Upper

Declaration
I confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of the 
snapshot date 5 April 2017.

22%

78%

12%

88%

Anne Marie Verstraeten    UK Country Head BNP Paribas Group

The bank
for a changing
world

“

Advocating for gender equality and addressing the gender pay gap is a responsibility that we take 
very seriously. Only by being open and transparent about the challenges that we face, can true 
change come. This report seeks to fulfil two objectives: one, convey our position on gender pay, as 
of 5 April 2017, in line with the guidelines laid out by the UK Government. And two, to share with 
you some of the initiatives we are pursuing to close the gap.

“

Louise Fitzgerald-Lombard   UK Head of Human Resources

What we are already doing to address the gender pay gap

Recruitment

Career

Culture

recruitment fairs.

graduate programme.

£	Stipulate equal gender representation for our  
 
£  Participate in targeted gender diversity  
 
£   Host dedicated events targeted at women in 
technology and women in capital markets.
£   Provide school-aged girls the opportunity  
to explore banking as a career through  
‘discovery days’.

 

£ 

£ 

 Provide all mid-senior level women access to 
dedicated career workshop days.
 Support the progress of women to more senior 
levels of the organisation through our Future 
Leaders Programme. 

£  Prepare women to step into senior client-focused  
 
 

and front-office roles through our Accelerated   
Leaders Programme.

£ 

 Support women with family responsibilities  
through our Flexible Working Policy, Shared Parental  
Leave Policy and enhanced maternity benefits. 

£  Focus specifically on gender equality and  
 
 
£   Foster an inclusive environment through diversity 

the needs of parents and carers through our 
employee network groups. 

events. 

What’s planned to address the gender pay gap

Recruitment

Career

Culture

all entry-level positions.

£	Broaden equal gender representation to include  
 
£   Launch a returnship programme to help mid  
and senior-level women re-enter the workforce.

£   Instruct our recruitment providers to  

diversify our recruitment pipelines and have 
gender-balanced shortlists for all senior roles.

£   Examine why men and women are typically 

attracted to certain jobs through our HeforShe 
campaign.

£  Make it easier for women to identify internal  
 
opportunities. Simultaneously, provide hiring  
  managers more visibility on the skills and  
 
£   Set targets and take action to increase 

capabilities of women across the organisation.

 
 

representation of women in senior roles in line  
with the Women in Finance Charter, which makes  
public our commitment to and progress towards 
greater gender equality.

   Intensify our support of working parents.

£ 
£     Ensure all new managers are trained to manage 
diverse teams, to identify and reduce bias and  
lead inclusively.

£   Encourage men to take Shared Parental Leave,  
use our flexible working options and champion 
greater gender equality.

