 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

APRIL 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

Trant Engineering Limited 

 

 

1 

 

 
Trant Engineering Ltd operates in the engineering sector, which historically has been a male dominated industry. 
Aligned to this, the workforce employed in engineering and construction on site make up 47% of an all male 
workforce. It is the nature of these workforces that causes the notable differences in the gender pay gap. The 
remaining  workforce  is  management;  professional  personnel  and  administration,  of  these  30%  are  female, 
mainly holding administrative roles. 
 
The  management,  professional  and  administration  grades  are  eligible  for  an  individual  performance  bonus, 
hence why 49% of females compared to 28% of males have received one. The bonuses are usually paid in arrears 
for each completed calendar year; therefore employees joining within the year may not be entitled to receive 
one. 
 
As  a  company,  we  understand  the  importance  of  training  and  professional  development  across  the  entire 
spectrum  of  employees.    We  are  an  equal  opportunities  employer  and  actively  seek  female  candidates; 
however, there has been a reduced number of female applicants for vacancies in engineering roles across the 
sector. As a result, we are continuously focused on developing initiatives for the development of the entire 
workforce.  
 

Gender Pay Results 
Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay   
Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 
 
Mean bonus gender pay gap   
Median bonus gender pay gap 
 
 
 

 

Bonus Pay Results   
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

20.4% 
24.6% 
44.5% 
50.0%   

 

 

Percentage receiving a bonus

Percentage receiving a bonus

49.20%

28%

Females

Males

          
                         
 
 

 

     

2 

 

 
Gender Split by Quartile 
Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

 

 

Male%  

Female% 

 
Lower quartile  
 
Lower middle quartile  
Upper middle quartile  
Top quartile 
 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

69.2 
91.7 
98.5 
92.4 

 
 
 
 
 
We have a consistent approach to remuneration aimed at ensuring that all employees are treated equally and 
paid fairly based on the business performance and market conditions. We are committed to a policy of gender 
equality and will continue in the forthcoming year, to ensure that this policy is applied within all aspects of our 
business.  
 
 
 
 

30.8 
8.3 
1.5 
7.6 

 

Gerry Somers 
Managing Director 
 

 

3 

