2017 Gender Pay Report
The Old Course Ltd.

To support our efforts to be the Home of Great Service in Scotland we need the very best talent, regardless 
of  gender.  As  well  as  capturing  the  essence  of  how  we  want  our  customers  to  feel,  our  ‘HOME’  people 
philosophy  (Honour;  One Team;  Make  Memories;  and  Explore)  also  represents  our  commitment  to  our 
associates  to  ensure  everyone  feels  welcome  and  respected,  regardless  of  their  gender. The  Old  Course 
Hotel is proud to be part of Kohler Co., a global manufacturer in kitchen, bathroom, hospitality and power, 
thus belonging to a much larger network of over 36,000 associates across 6 continents. 

Equal pay is not the same as the gender pay gap. Equal pay deals with pay discrimination and the differences in pay when members 
of the opposite sex are paid differently but yet they carry out the same work, similar work or work of equal value. We are committed 
to supporting equality through fair pay and we strive to ensure that men and women are paid equally for doing equal work.

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average (mean or median) earnings of men and women. The mean is the 
average and the median is the middle number when hourly rates are placed in order from lowest to highest; both calculations are 
expressed as a percentage of male earnings.

Pay and bonus pay gap 

The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on the hourly rates of pay during the pay period that 
includes 5 April 2017.  The bonus pay gap period is the 12-month period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017.

Hourly Pay 
Bonus Pay 

Mean
1.09% 
28.27% 

Median
-0.99%
48.37%

Gender representation and pay gap within each quartile of the workforce

Female

Male

The charts below illustrate the gender distribution within each quartile of the business 
when hourly rates of pay are ranked from lowest to highest.

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

53.33%

46.67%

51.69%

48.31%

49.44%

50.56%

58.43%

41.57%

Mean Pay Gap -0.01%
Median Pay Gap 0.00%

Mean Pay Gap 0.20%
Median Pay Gap -0.16%

Mean Pay Gap -0.12%
Median Pay Gap -1.35%

Mean Pay Gap 11.25%
Median Pay Gap -5.07%

Proportion of males and females awarded a bonus in the bonus pay period *

What do the results tell us?  

Statistics reported in 2017 suggested that the UK national mean average was 17.4% and the median 
average was 18.4%; our results are much lower than this.
During the period January 2017 to March 2017 the Hotel was undergoing signiﬁcant refurbishment work, because of this the 
bonus payments over the 12-month bonus period were affected and do not necessarily illustrate a typical bonus year.  Our pay 
gap results show that in 75% of our business there is a minimal and/or favourable pay gap to women.  The main source of the 
pay gap is the top 25% of the business (upper quartile) as the most senior(and highest paid) roles in the business are occupied 
by men.

We are committed to supporting equality through fair pay, and are conﬁdent that men and women are paid equally for doing 
the  same  job.  All  of  our  associates  are  provided  with  the  same  opportunities  through  our  company  beneﬁts  programme, 
including our bonus programme.

Gender representation at The Old Course Ltd

The  gender 
representation 
within  the  business  is  53% 
Female and 47% male. We are 
proud to have achieved a fairly 
even  gender  split  and  are 
committed  to  maintaining  a 
gender balance going forward. 

47%

53%

As part of our commitment to both enhancing and supporting our diverse workforce we will:

•  Continue to use external benchmarking to price our positions against the market to ensure that we are
  offering equal pay for every role within the business.

•  Continue to ensure our HR policies encourage and support ﬂexible working within the organisation.
 
•  Continue to provide Hiring Managers appropriate training and coaching opportunities to ensure they
recognise how individual behaviours and actions impact our overall ability to create an open, fair and   
 
 
inclusive workplace culture. 

•  Work with industry and non-industry speciﬁc charitable organisations such as Apprenticeship in Hospitality  
  Scotland and Career Ready UK to engage both males and females in Hospitality at an early age. 

•  Continue to promote diversity and inclusion as part of our New Associate Orientation Programme                                                                             
 
  Global Kohler Co. Ethics Programme.

(‘Respectful Workplace’), as well as through our Annual Respectful Workplace Refresher Training and  

•  Continue to provide women in the business opportunity to progress their careers through the offering  
  of a variety of Leadership Development Programmes. 

•  Continue to follow a fair and objective formal succession planning process for high potential leaders,                                                
  based on the speciﬁc abilities, skills, and leadership capability required to achieve desired business goals.

We welcome the UK Government Gender Pay Gap reporting initiative and support any action to highlight the 
gaps in pay, regardless of how these occur. 

We  believe  that  diverse  teams  can  deliver  the  best  performance.  So,  to  achieve  our  vision  and  to  be  a  truly 
successful business, we are seeking applications from high quality people whose backgrounds and experience 
enhances our existing team, regardless of gender.

Anna Boag 
Sr.Manager-Human Resources 

Stephen Carter 
General Manager, Old Course Hotel

55.09%

60.00%

The Old Course Hotel is a 144 bedroom, AA Five Red Star Resort, based in St. Andrews, Scotland. The Resort employs 
c.400 associates based in St. Andrews. The hotel also has its own championship golf course (‘The Duke’s’), including an 
extensive array of bars, restaurants, conference & banqueting facilities, as well as an award winning spa and ﬁtness 
facility – Kohler Water Spa and Leisure Centre.

* 6 April 2016 - 5 April 2017

Old Course Hotel

