AIG Europe Limited 

UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report
AIG is committed to fostering diversity, equality, fairness and inclusion for all of its 
employees. We are working to reduce our gender pay gap and to achieve gender 
parity in our leadership pipeline.

What is the gender pay gap?
UK government legislation requires 
employers with 250 staff or more to 
publish statistics outlining the difference 
between the average pay of male 
and female employees. The analysis is 
based on data as of April 5 every year. 
Companies must disclose the gender 
pay gap and the gender bonus gap 
based on mean and median averages, 
the proportion of men and women that 
receive a bonus, and the proportion of 
men and women in each quartile. 

This is different to Equal Pay, which 
legislates that men and women in the 
same employment performing equal 
work must receive equal pay, as set out 
in the Equality Act 2010. It is unlawful 
to pay men and women differently for 
performing the same job. 

We are confident that men and women 
are paid equally for doing the same jobs. 

What does the data mean?
The pay and bonus gap (demonstrated below) stems from the higher proportion 
of men in senior positions. The bonus gap is wider because senior employees 
tend to receive a larger proportion of their compensation through a bonus, 
as this can be adjusted in line with performance. We can address this gap 
by increasing the proportion of women in senior positions. Exactly the same 
proportion of men and women received a bonus this year. The data below 
relates to employees of AIG Europe Limited in the UK, excluding AIG Life and 
Asset Management which are separate legal entities.

Pay gap

The percentage difference in pay between men and women

Hourly fixed pay 

Bonus paid 

Mean 

29%

57%

Median

34%

53%

This table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap and 
bonus gap at 5 April 2017.

Proportion of colleagues awarded a bonus for 2016

5%

95%

5%

95%

 Bonus     

 No bonus

 Bonus     

 No bonus

The graphic above demonstrates that there was no difference in the proportion of men and women receiving bonuses at 
AIG Europe Limited in the UK during the 12 months to April 2017.

AIG Europe Limited | UK 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Pay quartiles

45%

Lower 
pay 
quartile

48%

55%

Lower 

middle pay 

quartile

52%

60%

Upper 

middle pay 

quartile

40%

21%

Upper 
pay 
quartile

79%

Men

Women

The data above illustrates the gender distribution across four equally sized quartiles of the business each containing around 400 
colleagues, from lowest to highest  paid. This data shows that we have more senior men than women in higher paying roles.

What we are doing to address this
•Implementingaprogrammeofmentoringforhigh-potentialwomentoenablethemto entertheseniorleadershippipeline
•Diversitytrainingandunconsciousbiastrainingformanagers
•Aimingtohaveadiverseslateofcandidateswhenhiring
•Encouragingflexible/agileworking
•Providingsupportforthosereturningtoworkafteracareerbreak
•Betterpromotingourparentalleavepolicies
•ContinuedsponsorshipoftheAIG Women’sExecutiveLeadershipInitiative–aglobalprogrammethatdevelopsexecutive

competencies so that women can progress to higher levels of management

“ In the UK at AIG Europe, we are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs. We see a pay 
gap due to a higher proportion of men in senior positions. The fact that there is a larger number of men in these senior positions 
influencestheoverallaverage.I’mheartenedtoseethatwhenwecomparehourlysalarybyquartile,theaveragepaygap 
drops to the low single digits. However, these results represent an opportunity for significant improvement. We need to do better 
–bothatAIGandasanindustry–toaddressthisdisparity.Wehavealreadytakenstepstoenablemorewomentoreach 
senior positions to ensure that we have a more diverse cohort of future leaders. We are also taking a leading role within the 
insurance industry to address diversity and inclusion. My aim is to create a workplace that celebrates diversity. There will be no 
quick fix. However, we are investing in the steps we need to take to reduce the gap and ensure that in the future we have a 
more diverse leadership team. I confirm that the information in this report is accurate.“

Anthony Baldwin 
Chief Executive AIG Europe Limited and AIG UK 

American International Group, Inc. (AIG) is a leading global insurance organisation. Founded in 1919, today AIG member companies provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, and other financial 
services to customers in more than 80 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock 
is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Additional information about AIG can be found at www.aig.com |YouTube: www.youtube.com/aig | Twitter: @AIGemea | LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/
aig . AIG is the marketing name for the worldwide property-casualty, life and retirement, and general insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. For additional information, please visit our website at www.aig.com. All products 
and services are written or provided by subsidiaries or affiliates of American International Group, Inc. Products or services may not be available in all countries, and coverage is subject to actual policy language. Non-insurance products 
and services may be provided by independent third parties. Insurance products may be distributed through affiliated or unaffiliated entities.  In Europe, the principal insurance provider is AIG Europe Limited. AIG Europe Limited is registered in 
England: company number 1486260. Registered address: The AIG Building, 58 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 4AB.AIG Europe Limited is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
and Prudential Regulation Authority (FRN number 202628). This information can be checked by visiting the FS Register (www.fca.org.uk/register).

8
1
3
0

