 Cirrus Logic Gender Pay Gap Report 2017  •  United Kingdom

Equality  Diversity Driving  
 

Innovation

“Cirrus Logic is dedicated to hiring and developing 
a thriving global workplace that values each 
individual and their contributions to our success, 
regardless of their position, gender or ethnicity. 
The key to this is continuing to build on our 
recognised outstanding corporate culture based 
on fairness and inclusion, where our employees feel proud to 
work here and are committed to the company’s success. As 
part of our efforts, we regularly review our processes to ensure 
they adhere to our core principles of equality in the workforce.”

Jo-Dee M. Benson 
Vice President and  
Chief Culture Officer

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

(reported in the required six areas)

We are required to report the statistics for Cirrus Logic International Semiconductor Ltd., as we employ more than 250 people in the  
United Kingdom. The data presented below has been prepared in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information)  
Regulations 2017 (the “Regulations”). These figures represent our employee data as of 5 April 2017.

The gender pay gap is an equality measure that  
demonstrates the difference in average earnings between 
men and women. The regulations aim to address the 
gender pay gap that exists in organisations and provide 
transparency around gender pay gap differences.

Organisations with more than 250 employees are required 
to report to the UK government the gender pay gap in six 
different ways: the mean and median gender pay gaps; the 
mean and median gender bonus gaps; the proportion of 
men and women who received bonuses; and the number  
of men and women according to quartile pay bands. 

The calculation behind the gender pay gap is not the 
same as equal pay. Equal pay is the difference in the  
actual earnings of men and women doing equal work.

Cirrus Logic is committed to addressing the gender pay gap 
working with the UK government and other relevant bodies 
to educate, train and attract more women to STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Maths) related fields. We are 
also committed to, and conform to, equal pay for equal work. 
We believe the gender pay gap shown in this document 
originates from the limited availability of female technology 
talent, which is currently an industry-wide challenge.

MEAN GENDER PAY GAP

MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP 

The darker color represents the gender pay gap

2

mean 74+
78+

The difference between the 
mean hourly rate of pay of male 
full-pay relevant employees and 
that of female full-pay relevant 
employees.

 25.7%
median

 22.2%

The difference between the 
median hourly rate of pay 
of male full-pay relevant 
employees and that of female 
full-pay relevant employees.

22
+
A
26
+
A
The difference between the 
median bonus pay paid to 
male relevant employees and 
that paid to female relevant 
employees.

 33.9%
median

The darker color represents the gender pay gap

PROPORTION OF MALES/FEMALES RECEIVING BONUSES 

  83.5%

male

  78.9%
female

The difference between the 
mean bonus pay paid to 
male relevant employees and 
that paid to female relevant 
employees.

64.5%

MEAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP 

MEDIAN BONUS GENDER PAY GAP 

mean 66+
35+
The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay.16+
21+
90+
98+
male 79+

male93+

100% of our permanent employees 
participate in an incentive bonus plan. 
During the reporting period, our bonus plan 
policy for eligibility was updated. All new hires 
are now eligible for the incentive bonus plan 
beginning on their first day of employment.

MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES BY PAY QUARTILE 
The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the upper, upper middle, lower middle, and lower quartile pay bands.

Lower 
Middle

7.4%
female
92.6%

Upper

2.1%
female
97.9%

Upper 
Middle

9.6%
female
90.4%
male

Lower

21.1%
female
78.9%
male

INDUSTRY-WIDE CHALLENGE:
Females comprise only 11% of the UK’s engineering workforce.  
Source: wes.org.uk

3

84
+
A
65
+
A
34
+
A
10
+
A
2
+
A
v
7
+
A
21
+
A
79
+
A
Summary

One of the main drivers contributing to the male/female gender pay gap originates 
from the lack of women pursuing careers in STEM-related industries (including the 
semiconductor industry) compared to other fields.

Cirrus Logic has prioritised three key areas to continue to focus in response to our 2017 
Gender Pay Gap results. These objectives have been developed to describe our over-
arching focus as we will continue to make and form as part of our overall commitment 
to workforce diversity.

OBJECTIVE 1 – RECRUITMENT

The search for top-tier engineering talent to help drive our corporate business strategy 
and our focus on innovation requires that we search far and wide for candidates from  
all backgrounds to be a part of our global team. In that process, we take into account  
all perspectives in order to find the right individuals for the job.
Activities:
 » Continue to review and monitor our recruiting 

 » Continue to promote externally our career 

processes while working closely with hiring managers 
and seek out candidates that can help us grow a 
strong, diversified workforce.

 » Work with our managers and business leaders to 
continue the recognition of diverse perspectives in 
building our workforce.

OBJECTIVE 2 – DEVELOPMENT

opportunities to ensure we attract the best candidate 
pools of diverse talent for our open positions.

 » Provide opportunities, programmes and an 

environment that attracts female technologists to 
careers at Cirrus Logic.

Deliver appropriate learning and development opportunities to ensure that a pipeline of suitably experienced 
and capable candidates are available for consideration for promotion to more senior roles, with a focus on  
under-represented groups. 
Activities:
 » Develop supporting material highlighting  
the potential career paths at Cirrus Logic.

 » Provide access to mentoring, training and 

development opportunities to encourage and 
promote progression for senior roles.

 » Establish a network of groups across our offices to 
support the career development of staff by helping 
address the issues in both their work and personal life 
that could impact their opportunities to pursue higher 
level roles within the organisation.

 » Support our female engineers by sponsoring their 
attendance at conferences, such as the Women in 
Science and Engineering (WISE) Conference and the 
IEEE Women in Engineering International Leadership 
Conference. 

 » Encourage our female engineers to actively participate 
in the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), WISE, and  
Women’s Engineering Society (WES) as members and 
provide sponsorship of local events.

 » Provide opportunities for our engineers to earn 

additional compensation by securing patents for 
innovative technological approaches.

4

OBJECTIVE 3 – GUIDING FUTURE TALENT

Cirrus Logic understands that in the next 10 to 20 years the gender gap will close significantly if we inspire the 
young women of today to stay in STEM-related fields. We believe that it’s important to support various activities and 
organisations to impact more women to choose career paths in engineering and technology-related fields. 
Activities:
 » Conduct “People Like Me” training for Cirrus 
Logic engineers through Women in Science 
and Engineering (WISE). This revolutionary 
research-based campaign allows our engineers 
to help young women understand their strength, 
aptitude and engagement with inspirational role 
models who share similar interests and to pursue 
careers in STEM-related fields.

bring together a variety of stakeholders that will 
allow delegates to explore the latest educational 
developments and champion best practices.

 » Sponsor and participate in STEM Scotland to 

 » Sponsor and participate in STEM in Schools 
to improve the number of graduates with the 
qualifications and desire to go into STEM-
related careers. 

 » Work with the Women’s Engineering Society 

(WES) Student Conference to create a Hardship 
Fund for students, providing support to female 
engineering undergraduates who have met 
unforeseen financial hardship during their studies.

 » Cirrus Logic is an annual major sponsor of the 

Edinburgh International Science Festival, hosting 
educational activities for the general public, and 
Cirrus Logic employees and their families.

 » Annual host of the Cirrus Logic Kids Engineering 

Day for its employees and their families, to 
include onsite STEM-related workshops and 
hands-on audio technology experiments.

 » Participate in the International Women in 

Engineering Day media campaign.

 » Advocate that our employees inspire change 
by participating in the #9PercentIsNotEnough 
Conference to provide a platform for sharing 
best practices on how to inspire, attract, recruit 
and retain women in the fields of engineering 
and technology.

 » Conduct a bi-annual International Innovation 

Conference to enable the sharing of ideas and 
future innovation.

Confirmation

We confirm that Cirrus Logic is committed to the 
principle of gender pay equality and has prepared its 
2017 Gender Pay Gap results in line with mandatory 
requirements.

Cally Burgess
Human Resources Manager
Cirrus Logic International Semiconductor Ltd. 
March 2018

Allan Hughes
Vice President
Cirrus Logic International Semiconductor Ltd. 
March 2018

©2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc.  |  All rights reserved.

5

