 
SMR AUTOMOTIVE MIRRORS UK LTD 
Gender Pay Report 2017 

Overview 

                     

Under new UK laws, which are welcomed by SMR, all employers in the UK with 250 or more employees must now 
report statutory calculations showing the size of any gender pay gap within their workforce.  Therefore, SMR UK is 
publishing its first annual Gender Pay Gap report.  The figures set out below show the mean and median hourly 
gender pay gap and bonus gap at the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 (pay) and the 12 months reference prior to 
5th April (bonus).   

Gender pay gap calculations measure the difference between average earnings of all male and female employees 
irrespective of their role or seniority.  An analysis at SMR shows a gender pay gap which is largely driven by the 
distribution of men and women across the business; a larger number of men are in senior, higher-paid roles within 
the business and that means that the average male earnings is higher than the average earnings earnt by women.   

However, we are confident that male and female employees are paid equally for comparable work.  At the same 
time, SMR recognises the importance of achieving a more balanced gender representation and is working towards 
an equal distribution of men and women across all levels. 

Pay difference between men & women 

UK's National Gender Pay

Gap

Source:  Office of National

Statistics 2016

18.10%

Proportion of men and women  
paid bonus in the 12 months preceding 5th April 
2017  
 

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap -

SMR UK

20.30%

Median Gender Pay Gap -

SMR UK

13%

99.4% 

 

 98% 

0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%

 
The diagram above shows our “gender pay gap”.  This is 
a snapshot of the difference between the average hourly 
pay levels of all women compared to all men, expressed 
as a percentage of men’s hourly pay.  The hourly pay 
figure used to calculate the difference includes all items 
specified in the regulations, such as allowances and shift 
pay. 

Our analysis of our gender pay gap shows that it is 
largely driven by the fact that there are more men in 
senior higher-paid roles within the business.  When we 
adjust for this factor our mean pay gap drops to 5.8%, 
where any differences can largely be explained by time 
in role or skill-set factors as well as the number of part 
time opportunities in the business which are mainly filled 
by women. 

Bonus difference between women and 
men in the 12 months preceding 5th April 2017  

20.00%
15.00%
10.00%
5.00%
0.00%
-5.00%
-10.00%
-15.00%
-20.00%

Mean Median

14.80%

-14.80%

 

Pay Quartiles 
 

Lower Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile  Upper Middle Quartile 

Upper Quartile 

44.1%

55.9%

35.9%

64.1%

22.9%

16.2%

77.1%

83.8%

Men Women

Men Women

Men Women

Men Women

 

The above charts illustrate the gender distribution across SMR UK in four equally sized quartiles.   

Action plan 

As of April 2017, women represent 31% of the total SMR UK workforce.  We would like for this to be much 
higher.  Increasing the number of women in our business, and moving towards an equal distribution of men 
and women across all levels is important in our goal to embed diversity and inclusion into our culture. 

Over the past few years we have focussed on establishing strong relationships with local schools and 
colleges to encourage young women to consider the career opportunities that we offer and view science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics fields as a future career.  This has seen numerous female 
graduates and apprentices join across both technical and non-technical roles. 

We are also engaging with nation-wide initiatives, such as Women in Engineering Day, to showcase existing 
female role models within our organisation, as well as celebrate a culture of diversity and inclusion and 
promote opportunities within our business to external female talent. 

In the coming year there will be a renewed focus on increasing the awareness of family friendly policies such 
as shared parental leave, paternity and adoption leave, as well as promoting policies on flexible working 
arrangements. 

Statement by Craig O’Connell, Managing Director SMR UK 

SMR is a global tier 1 supplier to the automotive 
industry. Our vision is to be the automotive market 
leader driving innovative technology for rear view 
vision systems, reflecting employee passion and 
excellence.   

As a company with a focus on electro-mechanical 
systems working within the automotive industry, our 
workforce comprises of highly-skilled workers from 
STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) 
related fields.  The UK-wide under-representation of 
females in STEM roles is well documented and we 
acknowledge our responsibility as a key employer to 
assess and monitor the gender balance within our 
organisation and implement strategies to cultivate 
an inclusive, higher performing and innovative 
company. 

To achieve our vision SMR will rely on a diverse, 
capable and engaged workforce to grow our 
position as global leader.  I welcome the 
opportunity to share our gender pay report and 
highlight some of the key ways in which we as a 
company are working to achieve a balanced gender 
representation within our workforce.   

Craig O’Connell 

Managing Director 

March 2018 

