2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

Miele is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to transparency and fairness in providing 
salary and benefits packages.  

In 2017 Miele introduced a new job evaluation scheme, pay policy and system for setting pay levels. 
Six new grade levels were created, by doing this we were able to establish whether there was any 
inequality across comparable jobs within the company. We are confident that men and women are 
paid equally for doing the same job at Miele, however the greater proportion of men than women 
in senior roles creates a gender pay gap.  

We recognise the need for more diversity at senior levels and are working hard at reducing this gap. 
We have improved this by 4 percentage points in the last 18 months and furthermore, by 2020 we 
aim to have equal representation in the Upper Quartile of employees. At Miele, we offer enhanced 
maternity pay, flexible working, regular reviews of our pay and reward practices, and recruitment 
training to eliminate any gender bias and to ensure all opportunities are offered fairly.   

In 2017 our Head Office in Germany launched a two year global project sponsored by the Miele 
Executive board to increase the number of women promoted to senior leadership roles.  

             

            Simon Grantham  
            MD 

 

Headline gender pay gap figures 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

The definition of the gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean or median 
hourly rate of pay that male and female colleagues receive. The mean pay gap is the difference 
between average hourly earnings of men and women.  The median pay gap is the midpoint salary 
between the highest and lowest salary.  

The split in each band shows the number male and female colleagues divided into four quartiles. 
This shows graphically the higher proportion of men in the upper and middle quartile.  Field Service 
(mostly male) is included in the middle quartile and the customer contact centre (mostly female) is 
in lower quartile. These two areas account for more than 50% of our total employees.  

 The figures in the charts above are based on rates of pay as at 5 April and bonuses paid in the year 
to 5 April 2017.  

 

Bonus Pay  
 
Slightly more women than men actually received bonus pay, however the amount was higher for 
men. This is again explained by a higher proportion of men at senior levels (and equivalent higher 
bonus pay). 
 

 

 
 
 
Why do we have a gender pay gap?  
 
We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across Miele. 
The main reason for the gender pay is the imbalance of male and female roles.  

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%.  At 20.5% we are more 
or less in line with the industry standard.  

The gap is due to the tendency to have more female colleagues in customer contact centre roles and 
less female colleagues in senior roles.  Within scales there are different lengths of service and some 
roles tend to sit higher in the grades than others so there will always be some differences in levels of 
pay (as below) 

 

What is Miele doing to close the gender pay gap?  

Miele is committed to monitoring, and where possible, make active positive interventions to help 
redress the gap.  

Miele also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas – we have, for example, no direct 
control over individual choices re study, career break or the career choices that are made. 

To date, the steps that Miele have taken to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce 
include the following: 

Creating an evidence base: To identify any barriers to gender equality and inform priorities for 
action; in 2017 Miele introduced gender monitoring to understand: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited; 
the proportions of men and women applying for and obtaining promotions; 
the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons for leaving; 
the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band; 
take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender and level within the organisation; 
the proportion of men and women who return to their original job after a period of 
maternity or other parental leave; and 
the proportion of men and women still in post a year on from a return to work after a period 
of maternity or other parental leave. 

Promoting flexible working for everyone  

At the time of reporting 32% of female colleagues were working part time employees throughout 
level 1 – level 5. Flexible working arrangements are currently in place at level 6 roles. The total 
number of part time employees is 16.2%  

In the last Employee Engagement Survey 86% of respondents felt very positive that employees are 
given fair treatment, without regard to race, gender, age, or religion.  

Miele offers enhanced maternity and paternity and flexible working arrangements  

We also have a manager’s toolkit and recently launched an in-depth guide on how to manage 
flexible working requests. 

Recruitment practices and training  

We ensure that all our managers have had recruitment training before interviewing. Our training 
also now includes bias training. We also ensure all development opportunities are offered fairly.   

Pay and benefits policy  

In 2017 Miele introduced pay bands and a new pay and benefits policy. Miele wanted to ensure that 
we were promoting equal and fair pay practices. Pay is set by job evaluation, market rate and 
performance and not negotiated at an individual level. Managers must now justify any pay 
exceptional pay increases that are given using a competency framework that is signed off by a panel.  

Forthcoming initiatives  

In the coming year, we are also launching a school-partnering pilot scheme with local secondary 
schools, to raise young people's awareness of the different career opportunities available at Miele, 
and to help dispel any misperceptions and stereotypes. 

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Miele is committed to reporting on an annual 
basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 

Any further initiatives launched throughout the year will be reported on the company intranet. 

 

 

 

I, Simon Grantham, Managing Director of Miele Great Britain, confirm that the information in this 
statement is accurate. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

