Gender Pay Gap Report
2017

Centrepoint is the UK’s leading charity for homeless young people. 
Working with over 9200 young people every year, our vision is to end 
youth homelessness. While we pursue this vision, our immediate focus is on 
providing vulnerable young people with a place to call home and a chance to 
acquire the skills they need to build a better future. Centrepoint works directly 
in London, Yorkshire, Manchester and the North East of England, and collaborates 
actively with similar organisations right across the UK.

This year, for the first time, all UK companies with over 250 staff are obliged by law to 
report on their gender pay gap. Centrepoint employs over 400 staff nationally and this is 
our report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

Our Statement

At Centrepoint, we see our work as a service that enables each person in our sphere of 
influence to fulfil their potential, and ensure that they are engaged and inspired to perform. 
A sense of fairness and equity is crucial to this important value so I am pleased to note 
that Centrepoint has a significantly lower mean and median gender pay gap than the 
national average which, according to the Office for National Statistics, is 17.5% and 19.2% 
respectively for the whole economy. Indeed, the percentage of women in each quartile is 
closely aligned to the percentage of women in the organisation in total (65%). 

Nonetheless, we know we have work to do to reduce the differential, especially in the 
upper quartile where the gap is the highest. I am delighted that we have already taken steps 
in this direction, unprompted by this external reporting requirement. Since April 2017 there 
has been an increase in the number of women being appointed to senior roles within the 
organisation as a result of which the proportion of females in this group rose from  
42% to 53%. 

Furthermore, 50% of the Senior Executive Team (SET) was made up of women in 2017 
whereas women now make up 62% of this group. This positive shift emphasises that, as an 
organisation, we are recruiting and promoting on merit and gives me confidence that the 
overall gender pay gap should be reduced further by the time we come to report on our 
figures next year.

4.5
%

MEDIAN PAY GAP

9.8%

MEAN PAY GAP

-2.18

%

MEDIAN BONUS GAP

I am also pleased to note that there is virtually no gender gap at Centrepoint in 
terms of our award of performance related bonus in 2017, confirming that our 
appraisal process is fair. The introduction of a peer review process for the 
awarding of the grades upon which the bonus is based has enhanced clarity 
and fairness.

However, we are not going to be complacent and I am determined to 
ensure that we remove any real or perceived barriers in place, wherever 
possible, to ensure that Centrepoint continues to offer genuine 
equality of opportunity to employees of any gender.
Seyi Obakin OBE
Centrepoint Chief Executive Officer
March 2018

0.22%

MEAN BONUS GAP

Figures in Context

We are conscious and mindful of fair pay and have a rigorous job evaluation system 
in place within Centrepoint. We believe that there is no indication of any gender pay 
differences between women and men who are in the same roles.

The percentage of women in each pay quartile is closely aligned to the percentage 
of women in the organisation in total (65%). The quartile in which the percentage 
of women is lowest is the upper quartile, which helps to explain why there remains 
a gender pay gap of 9.8%. The percentage of women in this quartile has increased 
substantially since the snapshot date which is reassuring.

While the figures show that a greater proportion of male employees received a bonus 
than female employees this is largely due to the fact that more women work for 
Centrepoint than men. This being the case you would expect that the proportion of 
those receiving a grade that qualifies them for a bonus would be less for women as there 
are more of them when you work this figure out as a percentage.

In spite of the disparity between the proportion of male and female employees receiving 
a bonus, the figures for the mean and median bonus pay gap demonstrate that there is 
little difference in the amount of bonus offered to men and women.

To address the issues in our gender  
pay gap reporting we will:

 9 Continue to use a rigorous, competency based approach to recruitment 
both internally and externally to ensure that those appointed to a post, 
whether internally or externally, are done so on the basis of merit alone. 
We will ensure that we use only objective and non-discriminatory 
criteria in the selection process.

 9 Review Centrepoint’s Reward Policy and system of job evaluation to 
ensure it remains free of gender bias and that Centrepoint makes fair 
decisions on reward in line with independently assessed market rates.

 9 Continue to offer a range of flexible working options to allow those 

female colleagues returning from maternity leave to maintain a  
work/life balance.

 9 Establish a dashboard of diversity statistics that are reviewed on a 

regular basis by Directors to influence strategic decisions  
where necessary.

 9 Continue to run mandatory diversity training for all staff.
 9 Establish a diversity champion on the Employee Forum to provide an 

additional avenue of accountability.

 9 Review the appraisal process to ensure that it remains free from  

gender bias.

 9 Ensure that we continue to offer career development opportunities on the 

basis of merit using objective measures.

 9 Empower staff to take responsibility for their career progression via the elective 

learning fund.

27%

RECEIVED BONUS

33%

RECEIVED BONUS

QUARTILE OF OVERALL HOURLY RATES

