Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
Vascutek Ltd

Vascutek Gender Pay Gap Report
Vascutek is committed to fostering a culture of diversity 
with a commitment to promoting equality of opportunity 
and eliminating any form of discrimination in the work 
place.  

The Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements support 
that commitment.

799 associates on 5 April 2017

769 people included

401 Female

368 Male

We are required to collect and report on pay data 

collected at a snapshot date of 5 April 2017.  

What are the Gender Pay Gap Regulations?

The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
are new regulations which require UK Companies with more 
than 250 employees to publish a report on their gender pay gap 
each year on 5 April.   This is the first year that reports are being 
published under the regulations. 

The gender pay gap simply shows the difference in average pay 
between all men and women in a workforce irrespective of the 
work they do.  

It is not the same as equal pay.  Equal Pay legislation focuses on 
whether men and women are paid the same for carrying out the 
same or similar jobs.      

A gender pay gap can arise for a number of different reasons 
for example low representation of women at a senior level or in 
certain roles. 

Carrying out the analysis for our business has been very 
informative – it has allowed to us to explore the reasons for any 
gap and it has given us confidence that there is no issue with 
the separate matter of equality of pay between men and women 
doing the same or similar jobs.

Our Gender Pay Gap Results 

Those members of staff are split across the organisation as follows.

Upper Quartile

40.10%

Upper Middle Quartile

57.51%

Lower Middle Quartile

56.48%

Lower Quartile

54.17%

FEMALE ■
MALE ■

59.90%

42.49%

43.52%

45.83%

There are more men occupying the most senior roles 
and engineering roles which sit in the upper quartile 
compared to other roles in our business where women 
hold a greater number of roles.

There is a more even balance of men and woman in 
the other 3 quartiles and we are therefore pleased with 
this result and are happy our recruitment and retention 
policies are working well.  With our approach to equality 
of opportunity we expect woman to progress through our 
organisation to the upper quartile thereby reducing the gap 
in future years.

Hourly Rates

Median Gender Pay Gap 

5.54%

Mean Gender Pay Gap

15.38%

UK Average

18.4%

The median gender pay gap is 5.54% which is well below the UK national average of 18.4%1.
 
The Median Gender Pay Gap is calculated by listing the hourly rates of pay in ascending order for all male and female employees and then 
finding the number in the centre of that list. The Mean Gender Pay Gap is calculated by taking the average of all male and all female hourly 
rates of pay.

This reflects the fact that we endeavour to ensure that all employees are remunerated fairly and also equally for the work they do irrespective 
of gender. The mean gender pay gap could be accounted for by the following factors:

There is a higher take-up of some salary sacrifice benefits such as purchase 
of additional holidays by women. Salary sacrifice reduces an employee’s 
entitlement to cash remuneration in return for some form of non-cash benefit 
such as holiday that is not reflected in their salary or wages. Such benefits must 
be excluded when calculating the gender pay gap in hourly rates and this can 
result in the salaries of those opting into these benefits appearing lower.

The nature of the work done at Vascutek means that we operate a shift system.  
Certain shifts attract shift premiums.  A higher proportion of men opt to work the 
shifts that attract the higher nightshift premium increasing their average hourly 
rate for the purposes of gender pay gap calculations.  

This may be because women prefer to opt for more standard hours to meet 
caring responsibilities which in turn has the effect of lowering the female 
average hourly rate of pay.   When adjustments are made to the published 
figure for this, the gap narrows substantially. 

At the snapshot date for calculating the gender pay gap in hourly rate, there 
were maternity leavers in our business.  The exclusion of them from the 
calculations, in line with Government guidance, may have had the effect of 
depressing the average hourly rate of pay for female members of staff.

 1 Office of National Statistics, 2017    

Bonus Payments

Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

1.21%

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap

32.15%

The Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap is calculated by listing the total bonus payment for each male and female employee 
who was paid bonus in ascending order and then finding the number in the centre of that list.  Our Median Bonus Gender 
Pay Gap is very small.  This gives us confidence that there is no inequality in the bonus payments paid to men and 
women doing the same or similar roles.

The Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap shows the difference between the average bonus pay paid to male and female 
employees.  The gap can be accounted for as follows:

The more senior roles in the organisation have different demands 
placed on them and reward is driven by performance in role.  This 
can result in more senior roles attracting higher levels of bonus.  

As the most senior roles/senior leadership roles in the organisation 
are predominantly occupied by men, this results in a larger Mean 
Bonus Gender Pay Gap. 

Associates on maternity leave only accrue bonus for the first 4 
weeks of maternity leave. 

As an organisation we do strive to ensure that there are no barriers 
operating (real or perceived)  to prevent or discourage women from 
applying for or being promoted into more senior roles and we will 
continue to do that.

Hourly Rates

Males receiving bonus   

88.56%

Females receiving bonus 

85.34%

The bonus payments used for the purposes of the calculation were those paid between 06/04/2016 and 05/04/2017.  

Those who did not receive a bonus were new associates who had joined the company after 01/01/2016 and were 
therefore ineligible during that year.  During this time there had been a higher number of operator positions involving 
sewing which is predominately a female role. 

Statement

This statement has been prepared and published in accordance with the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  

I confirm that the data and gender pay calculations are accurate.

Lorna McGill
Pension and Reward Manager

For further information please contact Lorna McGill, Pension and Reward Manager.

Registered Office: VASCUTEK Ltd, Newmains Avenue, Inchinnan, Renfrewshire PA4 9RR, UK
Registered in Scotland No. 79773

