  

Coffee#1 Ltd 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
Introduction 

           
 

 

 

 

Coffee#1 Ltd is an award-winning, family-owned private limited company founded in 2001. It consists of a coffee shop 
estate of 75 stores across Wales and the South West coast of England.  
 
At Coffee#1 our aim is to attract, develop and inspire our people to fulfil their potential. This is regardless of gender or 
any other personal characteristic. I welcome the focus on gender pay as it forms a part of our overall strategy to enhance 
the remuneration and reward packages that we offer to all of our team members.  
 
I am committed to working with the Board and Executive teams to continue our cultural journey, ensuring Coffee#1 is 
regarded as a fantastic place to work, providing equal opportunities in an inclusive environment.  
 
Jon Bridge, Director of People and Culture 

What does the Gender Pay Gap mean? 
The gender pay gap is a point in time measurement of the difference in average 
earnings between men and women.  
The gender pay gap is a separate topic to equal pay as it is concerned with the 
differences in the average pay, regardless of role.  
Gender Pay Gap results 
Median Pay – this is determined by listing all hourly rates for our people in sequential order and selecting the middle 
number. Our Median Pay gap is 0% 
 
Mean Pay – this is determined by adding up all hourly rates and dividing the total by the number of people in the list. The 
data is based on actual data as of 5th April 2017.  Our Mean Pay Gap is 0.1% 
 
Key information about our business 

Coffee#1 Gender 

Split

29%

71%

 
 

Male

Female

 

Our Company in numbers (as of 5th April 17) 
  75 Coffee 
shops 
 

517 people 
working in our 
stores 
 

The key factor influencing our 
Gender Pay Gap result is the 
high population of female 
team members throughout all 
levels in the business 

 ‘We attract, develop and inspire our people to fulfil their potential’ 

  

           

Total
Higher quartile - 76 - 100%
Upper middle - 51 - 75%
Lower middle - 26-50%
Lower quartile - 0-25%

Pay Quartiles

0.00%

20.00%

40.00%

60.00%

80.00%

100.00%

Males

Females

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
  

 
 
 

 
 
 
  

Our thoughts from this report 
We are delighted that the results from the Gender Pay Gap report reflects the 
 
ethos and culture that has been fostered and maintained whilst the company 
transitions through a period of significant growth and expansion. 
 
We have already introduced bonus schemes that are linked to our Company 
balanced scorecard aligned with individual KPIs. These robust measures ensure we 
are rewarding great performance, regardless of any personal characteristics, when 
determining bonus rewards for our salaried population. The figures published to 
the right relate to bonuses paid objectively as a direct correlation of individual 
store performance versus its KPIs.  
 
We have made some significant progress in aligning pay rates and levels in recent 
years. This has been achieved through a robust benchmarking process and greater 
transparency of our pay bandings for our people. More recently, our learning & 
development interventions have a stronger emphasis on developing current skills, 
enabling future progression.  
 
We will continue to engage with our people at all levels to understand the 
opportunities to further enhance our policies and processes. This will help to 
further develop our diversity to positively impact our culture. 
 
 

 

 

Our Bonus Pay Gap 

Salaried team members in our 
stores and team members 
working in our Support Centre 
are eligible to receive a bonus 
based on individual and business 
performance. Hourly paid team 
members are not eligible and are 
therefore not included in the 
data below. 

Bonus recipients – The 
percentage of people who 
received a bonus during the 
period 6 March 16 – 5 March 17 

  Male – 14.57% 
  Female – 16.94% 

 
Median Bonus Pay – Our Median 
Bonus Pay gap is 37.50% 
 
Mean Bonus Pay – Our Mean 
Bonus Pay Gap is 12.80% 
 

Closing comments from our CEO Scott Waddington 
It is encouraging to see the positive results of the Gender Pay Gap report for 
Coffee#1. Our business continues to grow at pace and we believe we have the 
right framework and principles in place to continue to report positively in this 
area moving forward.  
 

 

 
 

 ‘We attract, develop and inspire our people to fulfil their potential’ 

 

