Genpact UK Gender Pay Gap Report

Genpact appreciates the e(cid:30)ort by the UK government and is committed to the journey 
of having a gender balanced workforce, in the UK and across its global locations.

Hourly pay gap

31.1%

Mean

43.5%

Median

Bonus pay gap

66.7%

Mean

54.6%

Median

It’s important to understand why this pay gap exists at Genpact UK in the (cid:31)rst 
place. The core reason is that we have more men in senior roles than we have 
women and we have more women in junior roles than we have men. This 
means, more men than women are in higher paying jobs and more women than 
men are in lower paying jobs. The gap exists because these men and women are 
doing very di(cid:30)erent jobs, it does not mean that men are paid more or women 
are paid less for the same type of work.

We mostly employ senior sales 
and consulting professionals in 
our UK oﬃce, who are in large 
majority male. These roles are 

highly paid. 

Our women colleagues in the 

UK work predominately in 

support functions and specialist 

roles. These roles are not as 
highly paid as the senior roles. 

The gap is because we have less women in senior jobs and not because we pay 

women less for the same type of work. 

Employees in senior sales and consulting roles are eligible to receive the 
highest bonuses in Genpact UK.  We have more men in these roles than 

we do women, and this fact is driving the bonus pay gap.

Quartile Pay Bands

49.3%  |  50.7%

21.4%  |  78.6%

22.9%  |  77.1%

14.3%  |  85.7%

Pay band A

Pay band B

Pay band C

Pay band D

The ﬁgure above shows the distribution between male and female colleagues in various pay 
bands, based on UK government methodology of establishing the bands. These pay bands 
are not the same as internal banding system Genpact has in the UK and globally, as these 4 
bands were established according to the provisions of the law.
Genpact is a meritocracy, and we believe that we pay and reward our employees fairly and 
equally in relation to the role, skills, experience and performance. 

Percentage receiving bonus

Fewer women colleagues receive bonus as they occupy roles which 
are not eligible for a bonus payout. These are mainly associate and 
specialist roles. These numbers explain the bonus gap and why 
fewer women are eligible for a bonus.
• Total # employees in scope: 281 
• Female employees: 76 
• Our Vice President and above roles have 17% women employed
• Our Assistant Vice President roles have 22% women employed

53.8%

63.9%

About Genpact
Genpact (NYSE: G) is a global professional 
services ﬁrm that makes business 
transformation real. We drive digital-led 
innovation and digitally-enabled intelligent 
operations for our clients, guided by our 
experience running thousands of 
processes for hundreds of Global Fortune 
500 companies. We think with design, 
dream in digital, and solve problems with 
data and analytics. We obsess over 
operations and focus on the details – all 
78,000+ of us. From New York to New 
Delhi and more than 20 countries in 
between, Genpact has the end-to-end 
expertise to connect every dot, reimagine 
every process, and reinvent companies’ 
ways of working.

Genpact in the UK
 
Our Genpact UK entity was set up 
originally as a sales oﬃce.  At the time of 
this exercise (April 5, 2017), we had 281 
eligible employees, as deﬁned by the 
reporting regulation, out of which 27% 
were female employees (76 women). The 
female population in this oﬃce is lower 
than our global female workforce, which 
stands at 39%, as this oﬃce employs 
mainly senior global leaders and large 
teams of sales and consulting 
professionals that historically attract more 
men than women. Genpact’s UK 
employee base is a very small subset of 
our global employee population. In recent 
years, we have taken proactive steps to 
attract more women into our UK 
organisation and especially in our 
salesforce, but we recognise that we still 
have work to do to address this 
imbalance.  

Genpact’s Diversity 
and Inclusion Initiatives  

Our analysis shows that gender pay gap is a consequence of low gender diversity in senior 
roles within the company, a reality which we encounter also outside UK. We started a global 
journey in 2012 to build a diverse and inclusive environment that is conducive to women’s 
growth and provides them with equal and fair opportunities to build successful careers. 
Encouraged by the success of these initiatives, we believe there is merit in driving these with 
a special focus in the UK. Some notable initiatives that we have undertaken as part of our 
larger agenda to drive gender diversity include the following:

We ensure

40% gender 
diversity for our Global 
Leadership Development 

(GLD) programs

92% deployment
rate in our Returning 

Moms program 

Attracting diverse talent especially at the mid to senior levels is a critical priority for us. 
Toward this end, our ﬂagship initiative, Career 2.0, proactively seeks an often-overlooked 
segment of the corporate talent pool: women with strong experience who have been on 
sabbatical or on a career break. 

 

76 client-led 
networking forums 
conducted engaging
826 employees 

till date

Developing women leaders by ensuring diversity in all our leadership development programs 
and organizing networking forums to engage with leaders both inside and outside Genpact. In 
2015, we launched the Genpact Centre for Women’s Leadership, a unique academia-industry 
partnership to drive gender-inclusive growth with a vision to create a balanced distribution of 
income, resources and decision-making powers across sectors. 

Our unconscious bias 

training has been 

completed by

21,000 Band 4+ 

employees

Creating a supportive and safe ecosystem by introducing ﬂexi-work policies and providing the 
right systems and infrastructure to enable this as well as by driving sensitization by rigorously 
mandating unconscious bias training for all our managers. We practice zero tolerance towards 
harassment of women with stringent policies in accordance with the law.

 Flexible 
working 
& working 
environment 

Genpact’s Diversity
and Inclusion Initiatives  

To ensure that Genpact is leveraging all available best practices to help build an even more 
gender inclusive workforce, we partner globally with leading organizations such as Catalyst, 
the Center for Talent Innovation (CTI), The Conference Board, and the National Center for 
Women and Information Technology (NCWIT). Our President & CEO Tiger Tyagarajan is a 
founding member of the US chapter of the 30% Club, a global group of business leaders 
across industries, working together to achieve better gender balance at all levels of 
organization, including boards. He also serves on the boards of CTI and Catalyst and 
frequently writes and speaks about gender diversity, about which he is extremely passionate.
     

In recognition of several of these eﬀorts, we have won the Noon Award at the Gender 
Equality and Diversity Conference in London in 2015 and have been recognized at Catalyst 
events, the Gender Equality and Diversity Conference in London, and the ATD Excellence in 
Practice Awards for Diversity and Inclusion. 

We will continue to work with our Diversity and Inclusive committee to continue to improve 
our current practices, as well as develop new ways in which we can attract, retain and 
develop women.

I con(cid:31)rm the data reported is accurate

Ahmed Mazhari
Chief Growth O(cid:31)cer

