FLUOR LIMITED GENDER 
PAY GAP REPORT 2017

FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

“Hiring the right people is critical to our success. In the UK, we are 
working to create a balanced workforce and supporting government 
and industry initiatives to develop the optimum talent pool both for 
our company and country,” said Ashley Rees, Managing Director, Fluor 
Limited. “We are confident that we have equal pay however we do have 
a gender pay gap. There are two main reasons for this, fewer women 
entering the engineering and construction industry and fewer women 
in senior leadership positions.”

Ashley Rees
Managing Director, Fluor Limited

“It is our goal for all of our staff to achieve their full potential and 
therefore all employment decisions are based solely on performance, 
talent and behaviour,” Rees adds.

FLUOR  LIMITED – STATUTORY DISCLOSURES

From 2017, the UK Government has 
mandated that any organisation with 
250 or more employees must publish its 
gender pay gap annually.

As a global leader in the engineering and 
construction industry, Fluor is committed 
to diversity and inclusion. Our people 
are central to everything we do and we 
are working hard to shape our future by 
investing in and building upon our rich mix 
of talents and capabilities. Such diversity 
encourages innovation and creates a 
dynamic workplace that can deliver results 
for clients’ complex and challenging projects.

FLUOR  LIMITED GENDER DIVERSITY

28%
72%

PROPORTION OF FEMALES AND MALES IN EACH QUARTILE PAY BAND

PAY 

Mean Pay Gap 

Median Pay Gap 

BONUS 

Mean Bonus Gap 

Median Bonus Gap 

% 

29.1 

36.2 

42.3 

25.1

Females 
receiving a 
bonus 

28%

Males 
receiving a 
bonus 

36%

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

52.7%

47.3%

33%

67%

16.3%

83.7%

10.8%

89.2%

FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

03

UNDERSTANDING THE FIGURES

Fluor provides equal pay for work of equal value. We do have a gender pay gap when we compare the 
average pay and bonuses for women and men. As with most organisations in our industry, this is because 
of the unequal distribution of males and females across the company and not because of our pay policies 
and practices. Although we are making progress, we still have fewer female senior positions.

As highlighted by the Office for National Statistics “the pay gap is useful in measuring pay equality due 
to its simple calculation; however, it does not measure the pay difference between men and women at 
the same pay grade, doing the same job, with the same working pattern. It also does not include any of 
the personal characteristics that may determine a person’s pay.“

AVERAGE SALARY PER QUARTILE

Graph shows average salaries of 
males and females per quartile 
reflecting equal pay principles

Female

Male

Lower  
quartile

Lower middle 

Upper middle 

quartile

quartile

Upper  
quartile

Bonuses are paid to employees meeting certain eligibility criteria and exceeding specific performance 
criteria. Our bonus pay gap reflects lower female representation across the organisation’s more 
senior levels where bonus is a larger component of overall compensation. In terms of number of 
females and males meeting the eligibility criteria receiving a bonus, the results reflect our equal pay 
philosophy (30% vs 32%). 

In executive positions, female 
representation has increased from  
8% in 2011 to 12% in 2017.
 
For leadership and managerial 
positions for the same period 
representation has increased by 73%.

04 FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

HOW WE ARE 
BRIDGING THE 
DEMOGRAPHIC GAP

Fluor continues to build for the future by 
recruiting high calibre graduates, apprentices 
and employees. There is work to do, 
particularly in attracting more females into 
engineering and construction, but we feel 
our programmes are moving us in a positive 
direction and are a platform for the future. 

We are committed to diversity and equality 
in areas of our business that are under our 
control. We continue to strive to address the 
gap, ensuring that policies, practices and 
processes are fair and free from bias.

“I have learnt a great deal in a short space of time and have 
felt supported by everyone throughout. This has meant 
that I have not been afraid to ask questions and continually 
monitor my professional development with my mentor.”

Maryam Fozouni, Electrical Engineer 

ATTRACTING 
MORE WOMEN TO 
JOIN FLUOR

•  Recruitment and advertising features 

gender neutral language and images to 
attract both women and men.

•  Unconscious bias awareness and 

training sessions are undertaken across 
Fluor’s UK operations and is now 
mandatory for all employees.

•  Fluor offers employees a flexible work 

pattern including a 9-day fortnight with 
flexible start and finish times. 

•  UK workforce statistics are regularly 
monitored to identify diversity and 
inclusion trends and resulting actions 
are taken.

•  Fluor’s culture is built on creating an 
engaging work environment that it is 
fully inclusive and diverse presenting 
each person with opportunities to attain 
their full potential.  

FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

05

RETAINING AND DEVELOPING  
FLUOR WOMEN

•  GROWSM Growing Representation and Opportunity for Women – A global Fluor 

initiative, GROW provides informal coaches for individuals, training for leadership 
development, an annual Summit which includes a recognised role model as keynote 
speaker and range of training and networking opportunities.

•  Graduate Training Programme – during the early years of a career, Fluor’s 4-year training 
programme supports graduates so that they develop to meet the challenges of the future.

•  National and Regional Development Boards – senior management meet to regularly 

review opportunities, career paths and development needs for employees.

•  Mentoring Programmes provide regular guidance and support to maximize each 

individual’s potential.

•  Emerging Leaders Group – Fluor programme designed to encourage ongoing career 

development for mid-level employees with five to 15 years of experience. 

“I was extremely proud to be recognised in 
2017 by the European Construction Institute’s 
Young Professional of the Year award as I 
believe this helps raise the profile of women 
in engineering. One of the best things about 
working for Fluor is that you feel valued and 
are given the opportunity not only to gain 
a lot of technical knowledge, but also to 
develop management and leadership skills.”

Marianna Karvouni,  
Structural Design Engineer

“I currently work as the Business Manager on a major Fluor 
Limited project and I have also just been appointed as General 
Manager for Fluor South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa.  I 
will be based in Fluor’s Johannesburg office. The decision to 
appoint a female as a General Manager has sent a strong signal 
to the industry in the Africa Sub-Saharan region that in Fluor, 
leadership is about capability, not gender.”

Tolani Azeez, Business Manager

06 FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

PROMOTING ENGINEERING  
AS A CAREER CHOICE

•  Schools Liaison Activities – Through 

Fluor Cares®, we support local schools and 
sixth form colleges to promote the study of 
Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths 
(STEM) by providing funding, volunteers, 
speakers and running challenges.

•  WISE (women in science and 

engineering) – As a Corporate Member, 
Fluor supports WISE initiatives, campaigns 
and events for gender balance in science, 
technology and engineering industries. 

•  Working with Academia – Fluor has links 

with four universities to collaborate on 
ways to develop future engineers in the 
UK. Recently, Fluor donated $300,000 to 
the University of Surrey to provide third-
year students with industry experience of 
running a small-scale manufacturing plant 
as part of their practical experience module.

•  Role Models – Fluor’s women engineers 
regularly speak and participate at industry 
events organised by engineering institutes, 
the Royal Academy of Engineering and 
other bodies to promote engineering as a 
career of opportunities for women.

“I have always been proud to have a 
career in engineering and I believe that 
throughout my career I have been an 
advocate for the work that I do, leading by 
example, working corroboratively as part 
of a team, and thinking of new ways to 
approach engineering challenges. Becoming 
a Chartered Engineer was an important 
milestone in my career.”

Jenni Oakham, Mechanical Engineer

“I’ve been President of Fluor’s 
GROW programme for three 
years and feel just as passionately 
today about its ethos of men and 
women working together to grow 
representation and opportunity for 
women in our company. Whether 
through bite-size training, industry 
conference participation, activities 
with local schools and GROW 
events, we are working to increase 
diversity at Fluor.”

Helen Kilbride, Director Process 
Engineering and President of GROW 

GROW 

Successful role models can have a major impact on our workforce so we are delighted 
to have worked with space scientist, Dr Maggie Aderin-Pocock MBE, both at a GROW 
Summit in the UK and at a recent international innovation event.

FLUOR GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

07

Fluor Limited
Fluor Centre
140 Pinehurst Road
Farnborough
GU14 7BF United Kingdom
Tel: +44 1252 291000

© 2018 Fluor Corporation.  
All Rights Reserved. 
Fluor and Fluor Cares are registered service marks of Fluor Corporation. 
GROW Growing Representation for Women, and Emerging Leaders Group (ELG), are service marks of Fluor Corporation. 
All other service marks or trademarks are the intellectual property of their respective owners. 
BRFB097318

www.fluor.com

