GENDER PAY GAP

A MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT

“Molton Brown places significant importance and value around diversity, equality, and inclusion within our 
organization. We believe that our Gender Pay Gap analysis should play an integral role in driving meaningful 
and relevant conversation around these values.

“We are encouraged by the fact that within our head 
office functions, 55% of our management roles are
held by women and even further encouraged by the
fact that within our store teams 80% of management 
roles are held by women. However, we are not 
satisfied that the analysis indicates that we do have 
gaps that are larger than we consider acceptable in
some areas of our business. It is our responsibility 
to gain understanding and insight into the reasons 
and drivers behind those gaps.

“It is important to remember that we need to ensure 
we don’t focus only on the statistics and numbers as 
they can be very misleading without the context of the 
data behind them. It is more important that we use the 
analysis to drive awareness within our business; that we 
need to be asking the right questions and challenging our 
thinking and ambitions. We need to be taking actions to 
ensure we are fostering conversations around any barriers 
that may exist that are keeping every individual from 
realizing their maximum potential regardless of gender.”

Mark Johnson

President

Molton Brown, Global

MOLTON BROWN GENDER PAY GAP 2017

At Molton Brown, we are proud to employ diverse 
teams and we aim at attracting the most talented 
people regardless of gender, background and nationality. 
We strongly believe in upholding this equality through 
fair pay.

Integrity and fair-mindedness are at the heart of our 
brand as well as a strong part of the ethos of our parent 
company, Kao Corporation, which has been honoured 
as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 12 
consecutive years.

From store staff to manufacturing, international to 
head office departments, our statistics are drawn from 
our organisation as a whole. Whilst on first glance, our 

published figures suggest the average man has a higher hourly 
rate of pay than the average female, this does not mirror the 
true culture of our business. As a luxury beauty retailer, our 
store staff are overwhelmingly female – making up 90% of our 
workforce whilst our head office teams (whose pay is typically 
higher) are more evenly divided between men and women. 
This causes significant disparity across our results where the 
imbalance can not be taken into consideration when drawing 
gender gap statistics.

Nevertheless, it is important for us to diligently strive 
to maintain a culture inspiring innovation and diversity 
at every level within our organisation and amongst our 
leaders for the future.

GENDER PAY GAP

WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP

55% of our head office management 

roles including Vice Presidents, Directors, 

Associate Directors, Senior Managers 

and Managers are held by women. This is 
even higher in stores with over 80% of 
management roles being filled by women.

7% 

Lower 
Quartile

93% 

23% 

Upper Mid 
Quartile

77% 

10% 

Lower Mid 
Quartile

90% 

Females
Males

34% 

Upper 
Quartile

66% 

Hourly Rate Mean Gap 

42%

Hourly Rate Median Gap

34%

Full Pay Relevant Employees

Female

82% 

Male

18% 

Bonus Median Gap

62%

Bonus Mean Gap

50%

Bonus Received

Female

75% 

Male

64% 

THE MEAN: The average of all of the values 

THE MEDIAN: The mid point of a set of values listed in numerical order

Carrie Harris

Director, Human Capital 
Development UK & Ireland

OUR COMMITMENT

As a brand, we promote a positive and faithful dedication to diversity and inclusion within all our teams. 
To strengthen our commitment even further, we promise to perform the following:

• Carry on recruiting the very best candidate for the role, 
both internally and externally ensuring all vacancies are 
posted on our intranet in accordance with our internal 
talent acquisition policy

• Maintain performance-based pay and increases based 

on individual merit and salary positioning to our internal 
compensation structures where Human Resources will 
continue to ensure we are upholding equitable pay 

• More actively support flexible working to encourage 

a healthy work-life balance

• Always review our talent and progression plans to 

ensure women are in an equally strong position as men 
to advance in their careers and reach their full potential

• Remain committed to our Equal Opportunities policy

• Ensure that doors are open for a greater balance of 
women and men throughout all of our teams – we 
will work alongside leaders to review their areas of 
responsibility and build action plans with this in mind 

