   This site uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to their use. More about Cookies       The Francis Crick Institute       Background        Leadership        Our founders        Achievements        Jobs and study        Living in London resource        Francis Crick        Statement on EU referendum        Gender pay gap        Modern Slavery Statement        Contact us       Sitemap    Cookies    Privacy    Accessibility    Terms and conditions    Modern Slavery Statement    Follow the Crick                     Search site  search       Subscribe to RSS Feeds  Skip to main content       Home    About us    Research    Our building    Strategy    What's on    News    Contact us          Home / About us / 
            Gender pay gap       Gender pay gap      From this year all UK employers with more than 250 staff have
been required by government to publish data annually on their
gender pay gap.  The gender pay gap between women and men is not the same as
equal pay for men and women.  Equal pay makes sure men and women are paid the same for the
same or similar work, and is a legal requirement.  A gender pay gap describes the difference in average pay between
all men and women across an organisation, regardless of the work
they perform.  The Francis Crick Institute does not have an equal pay issue,
although we do have a gender pay gap.  The Crick gender pay gap  The median gender pay gap at the Crick was 7.2% and mean pay gap
was 15.4% on the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, based on hourly
rates of pay.  These are shown below and compared with the national
average.   The gender pay gap at the Crick is not acceptable to us as an
organisation, even though it is smaller than the national
average.  Understanding the gap  The main reason for our gender pay gap is that there are more
men than women in senior, highly paid roles at the Crick. Women
make up over 50% of the workforce but hold only 40% of posts in the
upper salary quartile.   Reducing the gap  The Francis Crick Institute is committed to equality, diversity
and inclusion, which is the right thing to do and also benefits our
research. Therefore we intend to reduce our gender pay gap.  The Crick aims to bring together outstanding scientists in a
wide range of disciplines from across the globe, and scientific
excellence benefits from diversity. Diversity increases breadth and
perspective, leading to greater creativity and productivity.
Significant changes will take time, but we are taking steps to
promote inclusivity, support working parents and recruit and
develop future female leaders in science.  Our parent institutes that came together in forming the Crick in
2015 had an imbalance in men and women in senior science roles.
Since establishing the new institute, this balance has shown a
shift through our recruitment of new research group leaders and our
hosting of groups from our university partners who are selected on
merit through competition.  Today, women make up 27% of our research group leaders, up from
21% in 2015.        Proportion of research group
leaders      Women  Men    Crick established in 2015  21%  79%    Today in 2018  27%  73%         We also are offering a number of initiatives to support
further change:    Generous support for childcare costs for parents with young
children returning to work is being introduced from April 2018  Automatic fixed-term contact extensions for those taking
parental leave  Flexibility on review dates for research group leaders who have
taken extended periods of leave, for example maternity leave  Support for group leaders who wish to work part-time  Reviews of part-time group leaders will be based on part-time
employment  Mentoring programmes for early career group leaders  Target for women to make up at least one third of the initial
shortlist in recruiting new group leaders  Training in equality, diversity and inclusion for all
staff    The gender pay gap will be reported each year allowing us to
determine whether these measures are improving the present
situation.  I confirm that our gender pay gap calculations are accurate and
meet the requirements of the regulations.    Paul Nurse   Director          Links           The Francis Crick Institute is a unique partnership between the Medical Research Council (MRC), Cancer Research UK, Wellcome, UCL (University College London), Imperial College London and King's College London.  The Francis Crick Institute Limited is a registered charity in England and Wales no. 1140062 and a company registered in England and Wales no. 06885462, with its registered office at 1 Midland Road, London NW1 1AT.         