UK Gender Pay Gap  
Report 2017

1

At Citi, we believe diversity and inclusion at all levels 
of our organisation are critical to our success, and 
that our gender strategy sets out a clear vision and 
plan to achieve our goals.

Our UK gender pay gap results measure the gross differential in pay 
between men and women, without taking into account differences 
such as role, seniority or location. They reflect the representation of 
men and women in senior roles. 

We are committed to creating more opportunities for women at the 
highest levels of our firm. That is why we signed the UK’s Women in 
Finance Charter, setting a goal to have women account for at least 30% 
of our Director and Managing Director roles across EMEA by 2025. 

We have made some progress. For example, our Board of Directors 
now has 31% female representation, and women now serve as 
country heads in 26% of our countries in EMEA, up from 15% in 2014.

But we know we still have more to do, and we will continue to work 
towards creating a more diverse organisation.

I confirm that the information contained in this report is accurate.

Jim Cowles 
Chief Executive Officer for 
Europe, Middle East and Africa 
Citi

Gender Pay Gap Report 20172

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

We value our employees, who come to work every day 
to serve as trusted partners to our clients by responsibly 
providing financial services that enable growth and 
economic progress. Our success rests on our ability to 
create an environment that supports the personal and 
professional growth of our people.

At Citi, we believe that diversity at all levels 
is critical to our success. We have made it 
a priority to foster a culture of inclusion, 
where the best people want to work, where 
people are promoted on their merits, where 
we value and demand respect for others and 
where opportunities to develop are widely 
available to all.

We were the first US bank to share the results 
of an external pay equity analysis which was 
conducted in the US, the UK and Germany. This 
analysis incorporated a number of legitimate 
factors which account for differences in pay 
including job function, level and geography, and 
found that across these countries women are 
paid an average of 99% of what men are paid.

We took steps to achieve greater pay equity 
as part of the 2017/2018 compensation cycle, 
and plan to roll out this analysis across other 
countries where we have employees.

We are expanding upon our initiatives to 
increase the representation of women at the 
highest levels of our organisation. For example, 
Citi signed up to the UK’s Women in Finance 
Charter, and in EMEA we have set a goal to 
have at least 30% of our senior management 
roles held by women by 2025. Our leaders will 
be held accountable for meeting these goals.

You can find details of Citi’s Diversity strategy 
in the final section of this document.

3

Understanding gender pay gap

The example below illustrates how the gender pay gap is heavily influenced by the lower 
representation of women in senior and higher earning roles. 

Scenario A

Scenario B

Role 1 - £200 per hour

Role 2 - £100 per hour

 

Role 3 - £50 per hour

Role 4 - £10 per hour

Mean hourly pay gap
In both scenarios, the number of men across all levels is consistent. In scenario A, there are no 
women in the highest earning roles. Scenario B illustrates how moving one female from the bottom 
to the top earning level reduces the mean hourly pay gap from 68% (in scenario A) to 34%.

Mean hourly pay  
(£200 + £200 + £100 +£50 + £10)/5  = £112 
Mean hourly pay  
(£100 + £50 + £10 + £10 + £10)/5  = £36
Mean hourly pay gap  
(£112-£36)/£112 = 68%

Mean hourly pay  
(£200 + £200 + £100 + £50 + £10)/5  = £112 
Mean hourly pay  
(£200+ £100 + £50  + £10 + £10)/5  = £74
Mean hourly pay gap  
(£112-£74)/£112 = 34%

Median hourly pay gap
In both scenarios, the number of men across all levels is consistent. In scenario A, there are no women 
at the highest earning role. Scenario B illustrates how moving one female from the bottom to the top 
earning level reduces the median hourly pay gap from 90% (in scenario A) to 50%.

Median hourly pay  
£200, £200, £100, £50, £10  = £100 
Median hourly pay  
£100, £50, £10, £10, £10  = £10
Median hourly pay gap  
(£100-£10)/£100 = 90%

Median hourly pay  
£200, £200, £100, £50, £10  = £100 
Median hourly pay  
£200, £100, £50, £10, £10  = £50
Median hourly pay gap  
(£100-£50)/£100 = 50%

What is the difference between mean and median?

•  Mean pay is calculated by adding up the pay numbers and dividing the result by the number  

of employees.

•  Median pay is calculated by listing all of the pay numbers in numerical order. The median pay  

is the central number. 

Gender Pay Gap Report 20174

Interpreting Citi’s UK  
gender pay gap data

A gender pay gap analysis looks at workforce 
pay as a whole. It does not consider individual 
comparisons, nor does it look at factors such as 
role, seniority or geography.

are particularly impacted by the greater 
number of men in the highest paid roles, in 
Citi’s case, most notably in sales and trading 
and investment banking.

Having a gender pay gap in an organisation 
does not mean that women are paid less than 
men for doing the same job. Instead, gender 
pay focuses on the representation of women 
within the organization, and the difference is 
principally driven by the distribution of men 
compared to women in senior roles and the 
areas of the business where women often work. 

As a result, the UK gender pay gap figures 
reflect the distribution of men relative to 
women across the organisation. The figures  

The UK requires the data to be broken down by 
legal entity, and by hourly pay and bonus pay. 
These figures are then expressed in two ways: 

•  Mean pay gap: difference between the  

average pay of men and women. 

•  Median pay gap: difference between the 

midpoints in the pay ranges of men  
and women. 

Gender diversity is a key focus, and our global 
diversity strategy sets out a clear path to work 
towards improving our gender balance. We were 
proud to sign the Women in Finance Charter and  
to demonstrate our commitment to driving change 
in our industry. We welcome the initiatives introduced 
by the Charter and by the UK Government in relation 
to gender pay and fully support their aims and 
objectives in achieving greater gender balance.

Jenny Grey, Head of Human Resources for EMEA 

Gender Pay Gap Report 20175

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Our UK gender pay  
gap data

Citi has two legal entities in the UK with at least 250 employees, and legislation requires us to 
report gender pay gap data for each entity.

1.  Citibank N.A., London Branch (CBNA), which broadly encompasses part of our Banking business, 
parts of our Markets business and our support functions including  Legal, Finance, Internal Audit, 
Compliance, Risk and HR; and 

2. Citigroup Global Markets Limited (CGML), which broadly encompasses our Markets and Securities 

Services business and Investment Banking business. 

Citi does not have a significant retail banking business in the UK.

Mean and median gender pay and bonus gap
The following tables show our mean and median hourly pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as  
at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017; and mean and median bonus gap based on bonus pay paid in  
the year to 5 April 2017.

CGML

Hourly Pay

Bonus

Mean

48.4%

64.6%

Median

36.0%

71.9%

CBNA

Hourly Pay

Bonus

Mean

36.2%

62.3%

CBNA and CGML combined

Hourly Pay

Bonus

Mean

44.4%

67.3%

Median

24.1%

49.5%

Median

30.1%

67.1%

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus
The graphs below show the proportion of men and women who received bonus pay in the year  
to 5 April 2017. 

CBNA

CGML

90.2%

90.8%

91.7%

92.4%

6

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Proportion of men and women by pay quartile
As required by the gender pay legislation, Citi has ranked the reportable population in order of 
hourly pay (from highest to lowest), divided it into four equal parts (quartiles) and determined the 
percentage of male and female employees in each part. 

CBNA gender distribution by quartile
(as at 5 April 2017)

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

22%

32%

37%

44%

78%

68%

63%

56%

CGML gender distribution by quartile
(as at 5 April 2017)

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

11%

23%

23%

54%

46%

89%

77%

77%

The data in our gender pay gap reporting represents the unadjusted aggregated data across  
these employing entities. In this way the UK gender pay gap reporting differs significantly to pay 
equity reporting which takes into account legitimate differentials such as job function, level, and 
geography. Please see our announcement regarding the pay equity study.

7

Cause of Citi’s UK pay gap

Citi’s UK gender pay data reflects reflect fewer 
women than men at the senior most levels of the 
organisation and in the highest-paid roles. This is 
highlighted most vividly by the pay quartile data 
on the previous page, which reinforces the need 
for Citi to hire, retain and promote more women, 
particularly into highly remunerated senior roles.

Our gender pay gap is larger in Citigroup  
Global Markets Limited (CGML), which houses 
the majority of our investment banking and 
sales and trading activities in the UK.

Our approach and strategy

We understand that improving our gender pay 
gap data requires our continued focus and 
a commitment to a comprehensive strategy. 
This strategy requires leadership, and we have 
created clear measures of accountability around 
diversity issues for our leaders at all levels. 

It starts at the top, as members of our CEO’s 
global leadership team each co-chair (along 
with other senior leaders in our products, 
functions and geographies) our global affinity 
groups, including Citi Women. 

We have devised a multi-pronged approach, 
which we believe will help us to sustainably 
improve representation. 

Elements of our strategy include: 

•   Launching a new global diversity strategy in 
2017, better connecting global and UK efforts 

•   Utilising three levers (hire more, promote 

more, retain more) and establishing 
associated goals for our gender strategy 

•   Public commitments, including the Women  

in Finance Charter and the UN Women 
Empowerment Principles

•  Investing in our Citi Women’s network

•   Continuing award-winning policies, including 

flexible working, shared parental leave and 
emergency childcare

•   Active involvement with external 

organisations working to achieve greater 
gender balance. 

Although we appreciate we have much more  
to do, there are signs of progress. 

•   The Citi Board of Directors now has 31% 

female representation. 

•   Women now run 26% of our countries in 

EMEA, up from 15% in 2014. 

More information on our strategy is on the  
next page.

“We are focused on being the employer of choice for 
employees of diverse backgrounds, attracting and 
retaining the best talent, and fairly rewarding employee 
performance consistent with our Leadership Standards. 
These are clear business imperatives for Citi, and we 
remain firmly committed to them.”

James Bardrick, Citi Country Officer for the United Kingdom 

Gender Pay Gap Report 20178

Diversity at Citi

GLOBAL DIVERSITY 
STRATEGY
In 2017 we launched Citi’s new global  
Diversity Strategy, firmly placing 
ownership and accountability for the 
achievement of Diversity results with 
business leaders.

WOMEN IN FINANCE 
CHARTER
Citi signed up to the UK’s Women in 
Finance Charter and set goals to have 
women account for at least 30% of 
our Directors and Managing Directors 
in EMEA by 2025, up from 19% in 
January 2018.

CITI WOMEN 
The new global Diversity Strategy seeks 
to streamline and enhance the variety of 
work that has been taking place across 
the organisation under a single banner.

NETWORK CHAPTERS
The Citi Women’s Networks act as the 
on-the-ground voice of the employee 
providing insight into the lived experience 
and challenges of our women which 
informs the goals and objectives of  
the Women’s Affinity globally.

THREE LEVERS
Recognising the economic value 
that women bring as a key business 
differentiator and to fully leverage this, 
we have implemented a robust gender 
strategy, which focuses on the three 
key levers, with associated goals: 
•  Hire More (i.e. Dedicated diversity 

research and insights consultant 
added to the Recruitment team to 
target female talent in the market)

•  Promote More (i.e. Robust succession 

and talent management processes, 
strengthen pipeline of talent)

•  Retain More (i.e. Proactive focus on the 

retention of high performing talent)

EXTERNAL
Citi is actively involved with a number 
of external organisations working 
to achieve greater gender balance, 
including: 
•  The 30% Club, Catalyst, the Center 
for Talent Innovation and Women in 
Banking and Finance

•  Our executives also participate in 
external forums showcasing our 
views on the importance of women 
in leadership and their contributions 
to global economic growth, including 
our own published research

OUR CULTURE
We have made it a priority to foster 
a culture of inclusion where the best 
people want to work, where people are 
promoted on their merits, where we 
value and demand respect for others 
and where opportunities to develop  
are widely available to all.

OUR AWARD WINNING 
POLICIES
Recognised in the Working Families Top 
Employers for families and number 8 
on the Stonewall Top 100 Employers 
for LGBT employees. These accolades 
are testament to the wide range of first 
class policies to support women and 
working families of all backgrounds in 
the UK and EMEA. Our policies include:
•  Flexible Working Policy
•  Shared Parental Leave
•  Parental workshops, held before,  

during and after maternity leave

•  Emergency childcare 

Gender Pay Gap Report 20179

Further Information 

Citi is committed to creating a truly inclusive work environment because we believe 
that diversity is a competitive advantage that drives better outcomes for our clients. 
Diverse teams challenge each other more, and contribute broader perspectives and 
experiences, leading to more innovative and informed solutions. We understand 
that true progress will be measured over the long-term, and are proud to be working 
towards greater gender parity.

You can find further information on Citi’s diversity program, including our Diversity 
Annual Report at http://www.citigroup.com/citi/diversity/.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017© 2018 Citigroup Inc. All rights reserved. CITI and Arc Design is a registered service mark of Citigroup Inc.

GRA29221  03/18

