                        Translate  Search for:    Translate  Client Login  Our Blog  Home About Us History Safety First Culture & Values Vision & Strategy Improving your Environment Awards & Accreditations Media & Resources Testimonials Corporate Responsibility The Environment Health & Safety Partnering Equality & Diversity Privacy Case Studies News Our People Key Personnel Careers Vacancies HR Department Contact Birmingham Office Bristol Office Business Development Office Cornwall Office Electrical Office Exeter Office Fire & Security Office Head Office London Office Marine Office Demolition Office Scaffolding Office (Bristol) Scaffolding Office (Wales) Southampton Office Wales Office Warrington Office Asbestos Scaffolding Marine Insulation Demolition Electrical Fire & Security      Menu  Asbestos Scaffolding Insulation Marine Demolition About Us Corporate Responsibility Client Login Case Studies News Our People Working for Shield Environmental Our Blog Google Translate This is an automated translation, and so may not be 100% accurate.    × Introduction The Environment Health & Safety Partnering Equality & Diversity Privacy  We have had the PCT contract for 6 years now and over that time the team at Shield have carried out Building Management Surveys, Asbestos Reviews and Demolition / Refurbishment Surveys, and asbestos removals. All the surveys were carried out on time,… Kieran Shore Contracts Supervisor MITIE Throughout the Risk Mitigation Enabling Works project at MOD Lyneham, where Shield were contracted to carry out Demolition, Asbestos Removals and Asbestos Surveying works. We found them willing to go the extra mile to meet the clients needs, the work… Dave Burns Senior Project Manager Debut (South West) Shield Environmental Services delivered on time, on budget, and without compromise. Through my past experience with Shield I have always experienced a professional service and I would be more than happy to recommend Shield’s Surveying, Asbestos Rem… Andy Syddall Project Manager BAM Construction Shield Environmental undertook a fairly extensive notified asbestos removal project for South Tyneside Council. The work involved the complete removal of a water damaged hall floor and removal of asbestos lagged pipework within the subterranean void.… Michael Hicks Asbestos Abatement Officer South Tyneside Council The Solent Steam Packet Ltd was delighted to engage Shield Environmental to clear pipework insulation on the steamship “Shieldhall” as a part of their grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund. The work started in September 2013 and finished on ti… Graham Mackenzie Project Manager Saving SS Shieldhall We have always found Shield Marine to be extremely reliable, reactive and flexible. The skilled workforce and management are professional and approachable, consistently delivering a good quality job within agreed timescales Gerald Pitts Programme Director A&P; Group Although this is the first project Shield Demolition carried out for McCarthy & Stone I found them very helpful and in my view they far outweighed the monetary value.We now have Shield Demolition providing the costing’s for all our demolitions … Patrick Cunningham Pre Contracts Manager McCarthy & Stone Retirement Lifestyles Limited This company has been able to consistently provide the highest quality service in terms of delivery, cost and customer service throughout their years working for Coastline Housing Ltd. During the initial months of our new Asbestos Management Shield E… Mark England Head of Technical Services Coastline Housing The service Shield has provided has been consistently professional, competitive and flexible. In dealing with the company, I have found its employees to be client-focused, helpful and efficient. We would not hesitate to recommend Shield Environmental… David Carmichael Maintenance Surveyor Devon & Cornwall Police Authority The NT requested Shield Environmental Services to carry out a (Management Asbestos Survey) of the property prior to carrying out minor improvement and internal redecoration works. From initial contact, to Shield providing a quotation for the work… Rob George The National Trust  Equality & Diversity  Home /  Corporate Responsibility / Equality & Diversity  A culture of fairness is important to us and is part of our ongoing work. Through our recruitment processes and personal development plans we ensure a culture of equality is implemented and are confident that men and women in our employment are paid equally across our business for doing equivalent jobs. For more information please download our Gender Pay Gap report 2017. Awards & Accreditations.  2018 Shield Environmental Services Ltd. Shield House, Caxton Business Park, Crown Way, Warmley, Bristol BS30 8XJ   Tel: 0117 960 6366 | Fax: 0117 960 5583 | Email: enquiries@shieldenvironmental.co.uk   Company Registered Number 01889657 | VAT Number 880 2238 31   Asbestos License Number 841300684 Links Awards Media & Resources Testimonials Partnering Contact Us Privacy Asbestos Scaffolding Marine Insulation Demolition Fire & Security Safety First Join Us Sign up to our Newsletters    Subscribe Twitter  Facebook  LinkedIn Web Design Bristol by Creative Steam  This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Accept  Read More                  