 

 

Veritas Technology (UK) Limited has published the following gender pay gap figures in line with the requirements of 
The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

The Gender Pay calculations produce a snapshot across the whole of the Veritas UK business without reference to 
function or grade.  It is important to note that the Gender Pay Gap is not the same as Pay Equity or equal pay for 
work of equal value.  

Individual pay decisions at Veritas are made in line with our pay for performance philosophy which recognises 
differences in individual performance – regardless of gender – and considers experience, role tenure, and 
qualifications.  These individual decisions are underpinned by reference to a vigorous market data pricing analysis for 
each discrete role to ensure an internally fair and externally competitive base line. 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Gap 

 
Lower quartile 
Lower mid quartile 
Upper mid quartile 
Upper quartile 

 

 

Mean 
31.75% 
60% 

Male 
60% 
79% 
79% 
83% 

Median 
17.95% 
68.8% 

Female 
40% 
21% 
21% 
17% 

The gender pay gap within Veritas UK is driven primarily by the under representation of women who make up 25% of 
the total employee population.  While our employee population gender split is above the industry average of 17% 
female representation (source Chartered Institute of IT) we recognise that positive steps need to be taken to address 
this imbalance and to promote diversity and gender pay equity.  The gender imbalance is higher across the Sales 
Function (Male 79% / Female 21%) which makes up 62% of total employee population in the UK. Most of these sales 
employees are on commission plans and given there are more men than women in the sales organization, this also 
disproportionately impacts the gender pay gap.  

FY18 saw the publication of the first Veritas Global Corporate Responsibility Report detailing Veritas’ global approach 
to Corporate Responsibility, employee programs and initiatives to promote and drive a diverse and inclusive 
workforce.  

As a signatory to both the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Women’s Empowerment Principles, 
Veritas supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation and has been working 
to identify Sustainable Development Goals for attention including Gender Equality.  

This groundwork sets the foundation in building effective policies and procedures to support the increased 
representation of women across all functional areas and at all levels of the organisation.  Attention will be focused 
specifically on:   

•  Extending the examination of our recruitment practices.   
•  Developing links with local educational centres to encourage women into STEM careers. 
•  Rolling out “unconscious bias” training that outlines steps Veritas is taking to create a more diverse 

and inclusive workplace. 

•  The continued promotion and support for flexible working practices to support all employees in 

balancing work and home commitments. 

