 

 

 

FCC Environment 
(UK) Ltd 
Gender Pay Gap 
Report – April 
2017 
 

 

 

What is the gender pay gap? 

From April 2017 the government has introduced gender pay gap reporting for all companies with 
more than 250 employees. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average hourly pay for men and women 
across all ages, roles and levels. 

It differs from equal pay which is the right for men and women to be paid at the same rate of pay 
for work of equivalent value. 

 

FCC Environment (UK) Ltd has a robust job evaluation process for all non-manual roles. This has 
enabled us to create a framework of pay ranges that avoids any gender bias.  

 

Manual roles are determined by local market job rates and TUPE transfers. However, all manual 
roles are paid a rate for the job regardless of gender. 

 

 

 
 
 

Our overall workforce is predominantly male, which is typical 
within the waste, energy and water industry that consists of 
78%* men. We remain committed to improving gender 
balance, however with a long service workforce and transfer 
of employees into the business we recognise this will take 
time to change. 

 

 

 

*Source: Energy & Utility Skills Workforce renewal & Skills Strategy: 2020 

 
 
 

Our figures explained 

 

Median and Mean gender pay gap 

 

 

 

The gender bonus gap is the difference between the average hourly pay received by men and 
women within FCC Environment (UK) Ltd as at 5 April 2017. We’re reporting two measures of our 
gender pay gap, the median and mean (average) gender pay gap. The median gender pay gap 
removes any influence of very high and very low pay. 

The national median is 18.4% in favour of men. This rises to 19.6% within the utilities sector of 
which we form part. 

Our figures show that both our median and mean hourly rates favour women in our workforce.  

This is because we have a higher proportion of women in non-manual support and technical roles 
within the business. These roles are typically paid higher than male dominated manual roles. 

 

Pay quartiles – how is pay distributed? 

 

The distribution of men and women is shown in pay quartiles which are calculated by splitting the 
whole workforce into four equal sized bands based on hourly pay, from highest to lowest. The 
percentage of men and women is calculated for each band. 

The proportion of women employed within our organisation is 19.01%, which is broadly reflected 
across the majority of the quartiles with the exception of the lower quartile. The lower quartile is 
not representative of the wider gender split across the business primarily due to the relatively 
small number of women employed within manual roles.  

 

 
 
 

What’s our bonus gap? 

 

 

 
  The gender bonus gap is the difference between the average bonus received by men and women 
  across FCC Environment at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 
 
  We operate two types of schemes – a group bonus scheme, which is primarily for non-manual staff 
  and KPI schemes for site based staff.  KPI schemes vary for each sector of the business. 
 
  Both types of schemes have various payment dates throughout the year.  The snapshot date of 5 
  April 2017 only reflects those who received bonus during that period so does not capture all 
  employees who were actually paid a bonus outside of the snapshot date. 
 
  During the snapshot date period 48.1% of males and 31% of females within the business were paid 
  a bonus. Our median bonus gender gap was 11.67% in favour of men and our mean bonus 
  gender pay gap was 16.69% in favour of men. 
 
  We are confident that we have equitable and fair schemes in place regardless of gender and the 
  majority of employees receive a bonus payment at some point during a calendar year. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This statement confirms that the published 
information is accurate and is signed by 

 

 

 

PAUL TAYLOR 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
FCC ENVIRONMENT (UK) LTD 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

©FCC©FCC Environment (UK) Ltd 2017 
 
 
 

