UK Gender   
Pay Gap Report  
2017 

Foreword 

Inclusion and diversity are critical to BlackRock’s 
mission to create better financial futures for 
clients. By harnessing the different backgrounds 
and experiences of our people, we challenge the 
status quo, inspire innovation, and create better 
outcomes for our clients and ourselves. 

The UK Gender Pay Gap Regulations give us the opportunity to 
discuss our progress as well as the challenges we face, and focus 
our efforts to improve. We have made a long-term commitment 
to increase the number of women in senior positions at the firm 
through hiring, retention, promotion, and development initiatives. 
We embrace the responsibility we have to our employees and to the 
communities in which we operate. We also recognise the scale of the 
issue and multi-year commitment required.

Closing the gap requires consistency, persistence, and focus in 
every decision we make. For BlackRock, this is ultimately about 
creating more opportunities for women to become leading investors, 
technologists, and senior executives. In this report we outline some of 
the initiatives we are undertaking within the company and across our 
industry. But, simply stated, we need to move faster and do better.

Rachel Lord 
Senior Managing Director,  
Head of Europe, Middle East, and Africa

Today

of our global Graduate Class hires  
were women in 2017 

of all new hires globally were  
women in 2017

of our global workforce  
are women

of the BlackRock, Inc. Board of 
Directors are women (pending 
nominee elections on 23 May 2018) 

53%   
45% 
40%
28%

Women in Senior Leadership Roles

Today

27.5% 

Target for 2020

30%

Understanding our Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap vs. Equal Pay 

Our gender pay gap data shows that men at BlackRock earn more on 
average than women. This is because men hold a majority of the firm’s 
most senior and highest-paying roles while women are more prevalent in 
more junior roles. 

We need to do more to create senior leadership opportunities for women, 
particularly in our core portfolio management and technology functions. 

Fair Pay at BlackRock

We have processes in place designed to ensure fair pay for roles with 
similar scope and impact, but we need to remain vigilant. BlackRock has 
a strong pay-for-performance culture: our annual compensation process 
takes into consideration role, performance, seniority, skills, knowledge, and 
market benchmarks. We conduct functional and regional reviews to ensure 
pay decisions are made fairly and without bias. 

An independent third-party firm recently conducted an analysis of our 
compensation practices. The results show that our pay practices are based 
on a number of factors, such as experience, role, and impact – gender is 
not a driver of pay.

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average 
pay for men and women across a workforce, regardless of 
role or seniority. 

Equal pay is being paid the same for the same/similar work 
and similar impact. This has been a requirement under UK 
law since 1970, and is the law in many other markets in which 
we operate.

 
BlackRock UK Gender Pay Gap Figures

21%
28% 
69%  
45%  
94% 
93% 

mean ordinary pay gap

median ordinary pay gap

mean bonus gap

median bonus gap

of male employees received a bonus

of female employees received a bonus

Closing the Gap

The gender pay gap data highlights our current gender distribution and the 
lower ratio of women in senior and higher-paying roles. We are intensely 
focused on changing that ratio. 

We recognise that it will take a multi-year strategy and focused execution to 
close the gap. We need to deepen our focus on recruiting, developing, and 
retaining women at all levels of the firm in order to make the change we need.

Progress will not be linear. The gender pay gap could widen some years as a 
result of the vesting of equity awards made in prior years and as we hire more 
junior women into our talent pipeline. 

We have made hiring, engaging, and advancing women a priority for many 
years – we have a strong foundation on which to build. Last year, over one 
third of our senior hires were women and we increased the number of women 
in senior leadership roles to 27.5%. We are making progress but we are not 
satisfied with where we are today.

Five Years of Global Progress

2012

2017

38%

53%

of the Graduate Class were women

41% 

45% 

of all new hires were women

24% 

27.5% 

senior leader female representation

Closing the Gap: Recruitment

We have established hiring and talent development processes designed  
to ensure that talent decisions are made without bias while promoting 
workplace diversity.

In recruiting, we: 

•  Require that we interview a group of diverse candidates for every open job 

•  Train our managers to be aware of unconscious bias and take steps to 

mitigate potential bias

•  Coach our managers to build high-performing, diverse teams, and to foster 

inclusion and belonging for all employees

•  Use competency-based interviewing to assess candidates against consistent 

job standards

•  Review select job postings for potentially biased language

•  Hold the recruitment and search firms with which we partner accountable to 

the same standards

We have initiatives focused on making it more attractive and easier for women 
to join BlackRock. In order to encourage young women to explore these career 
options, we have developed a range of programmes including The Hallac 
Scholarship; our support for Into University/Big City, Bright Futures; and  
the Girls Network. Each of those offer financial support and mentorship to 
young women.

2017 UK Hiring

53%

of the Graduate Class were women

39% 

of all senior leaders hired into the firm were women

47% 

of all new hires were women

“We’re not waiting for women to find 
BlackRock. We are reaching out at every 
level to find the women who are going 
to drive the future for BlackRock and its 
clients. Scholarships at the entry level 

and a more strategic approach to recruiting at the 
executive level are making BlackRock a better place.”

Ola Fadipe 
Director, 
EMEA Talent Acquisition Lead and Global Head of 
Campus Recruitment and Development

Closing the Gap: Development 

To move women into more senior roles, we continue to focus on the development of 
women at BlackRock. A key component of our leadership development programmes is 
sponsorship – widely considered a career accelerator. We’ve incorporated sponsorship 
of women into our development programmes for Managing Directors, Directors, and 
Vice Presidents. We are focused on ensuring that our programmes are accelerating 
the careers of the women at BlackRock. We closely track their effectiveness through 
promotion rates, role expansions, and leadership roles in external industry forums, 
including boards.

Women’s Leadership Forum (WLF) accelerates the development of our most 
promising female leaders. Over the past seven years, it has focused on increasing the 
strategic impact and executive presence of women through a blend of sponsorship, 
coaching, and structured learning.

Leadership Excellence and Development programme (LEAD) targets high-
performing emerging leaders in areas where we know we want to boost 
representation. At 57% female participation, the recently launched program focuses 
on raising self-awareness of strengths and development areas, skills building, 
BlackRock case studies, coaching, and exposure.

Human Capital Committee (HCC) Sponsorship Initiative matches senior leaders 
dedicated to career development with high-performing, diverse Directors. Launched 
in 2017, 68% of programme participants were women. The goals of this initiative are to:

•  Drive opportunities for career development, mobility, and growth

•  Build a deeper and more diverse leadership bench

•  Ensure leaders broaden relationships with top diverse talent

“Mentorship and sponsorship 
have been incredibly important 
to me as I’ve developed my 
career. I’ve been fortunate to 
have a broad array of advisers 

from inside and outside of BlackRock who 
have helped me see things from a different 
perspective, learn about myself, and make brave 
decisions. I also have the privilege of acting as 
sponsor and mentor to other people, which is 
hugely rewarding. It’s about creating a culture 
where mentorship and feedback are the norm 
– some of my most impactful relationships 
grew naturally.”

Poppy Allonby  
Managing Director, 
Head of Strategic Product Management, EMEA

Closing the Gap: Retention 

We understand that our people are highly sought after. That is why we work hard 
to retain our high-performing women and men. Creating an inclusive culture where 
everyone feels they can belong – where they can be themselves and do their best 
work – is key to retaining talent at BlackRock. Our leadership model, which is the 
basis of how we assess emerging leaders, is underpinned by demonstrating inclusive 
leadership and building high-performing diverse teams. 

We know that it is important for women to have role models in leadership positions 
across the organisation. We are proud that the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) 
Executive Committee is 37% women, and that the board of BlackRock Group Limited 
– the holding company which oversees the BlackRock EMEA group of companies – is 
over 30% women.

Women’s Initiative Network (WIN), which recently celebrated its 10th anniversary, 
brings together leadership, innovation, and passion to foster the full potential of 
BlackRock’s women through a number of initiatives reaching over 1,000 employees 
across EMEA. These initiatives include:

•  Analyst Mentoring: Group mentoring programme 

•  Elevate Series: Three-part series for Associates, providing skills workshops, career 
planning guidance, and access to role models, as well as an EMEA-wide network of 
similarly motivated peers

•  Art of the Ask: Exclusive opportunity for high-potential women at the Vice 

President level to develop their potential through building skills, confidence, and 
the ability to negotiate successfully – to ask for what they want

Balancing Work and Life 

We offer a progressive and comprehensive 
suite of benefits designed to promote 
work-life flexibility and employee financial 
and personal wellness. These include 
a flexible time off policy, agile working 
arrangements, emergency child care, 
school holiday cover and back up, adult 
and elderly care, enhanced pay during 
maternity leave, enhanced paid leave for 
non-primary care givers, and paternity 
leave. To further support new parents, we 
provide maternity leave coaching and offer 
pre- and post-leave workshops for both 
employees and managers.

“BlackRock’s collaborative, 
meritocratic culture with 
its focus on innovation 
provides me with great 
opportunities to learn and 
make a difference.”

Simona Paravani 
Managing Director, 
Global Head of Investments,  
Client Portfolio Solutions

Transparency and Accountability

We believe that transparency and accountability are critical as we seek to create a more 
inclusive and diverse workforce. We use both to inform and improve our recruiting and 
development practices. 

We regularly track and monitor gender data, reviewing hiring, promotion, and attrition at 
the firm, regional, and functional levels. These scorecards ensure we continuously challenge 
ourselves to increase the diversity of our teams. We also measure and review performance 
ratings, promotion, and compensation to ensure fair and objective decision making. 

Senior leaders are held accountable for progress on diversity. The BlackRock, Inc. Board 
of Directors oversees our Global Executive Committee’s compensation and bonus pools, 
which are determined, in part, based on how they deliver against annual Talent and Diversity 
objectives. These objectives specifically include an increase in the number of women at all 
levels and progress against our short-term goal of 30% women in senior management roles. 

Last year, we built training programmes and tools for our managers to create more diverse and 
inclusive teams and began embedding those expectations in our talent processes. Managers 
are evaluated against these expectations in the annual performance review process.

Employee Opinion Survey (EOS)

We also measure employee reaction 
to our inclusion and diversity efforts 
through our yearly Employee 
Opinion Survey (EOS), which has 
95% participation. Through this 
process, we learned that women 
at BlackRock are looking for role 
models and sponsors/champions to 
increase their feeling of belonging 
at the company. We acted on this 
data by creating more sponsorship 
programmes and committing to 
extending these programmes 
deeper into the organisation. 

Industry Leadership

We believe that it is critical that we work to promote the role of women and other 
underrepresented groups not only within BlackRock, but across our entire industry. 

We display our commitment in a variety of ways:

•  We were an inaugural signatory to the UK Women in Finance Charter

•  We are active members of the 30% Club and have 60 employees currently assigned as 

either mentors or mentees across the industry 

•  We sit on the 100 Women in Finance Leadership Council

•  We are a sponsor of The Diversity Project

•  Our CEO is a signatory of the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion organised by PwC

•  We partner with other women’s networks across the industry to share best practices

•  A number of senior BlackRock women have been externally recognised for their 
leadership and influence, featuring in awards such as Financial News’ 100 Most 
Influential Women in Finance and Financial Times’ and HERoes Top 50 Champions of 
Women in Business

•  We encourage employees to consider the diversity of panels when asked to speak at 

industry events, and to consider refusal if the panel is not sufficiently diverse

“I joined the 
London board 
of 100 Women 
in Finance 
because I am 
passionate about supporting 
women in our industry and our 
firm – because we need more 
women in senior investment 
roles. To make progress, we 
need to empower women 
through professional 
development and peer-to-peer 
networking, and it is critically 
important to inspire young 
women to pursue careers in 
finance and investments.”

Sheryl Needham 
Managing Director,  
Head of BlackRock’s Family 
Office business in EMEA

A Letter from the CEO

Eight founders – six men, two women – started 
BlackRock 30 years ago with the commitment 
to do things differently, to constantly push 
ourselves to do better for our clients and 
for employees. 

But we will – we must – do more to drive the diversity of our team. 
We need to improve ourselves, not replicate ourselves. We need 
more voices to ensure we make the best decisions. We need to 
continue to create an environment in which all employees feel 
they can be themselves. 

We have grown a lot in 30 years. Among the 
things we learned along the way is that if we are going to help 
our clients build better futures – if we are going to fulfill our social 
purpose – we need to be more diverse, inclusive, and equitable. 
We learned that to serve our clients, we need to mirror the 
people whose money we manage. This means being Japanese 
in Japan, Dutch in the Netherlands, British in the UK. And with 
a growing number of women managing wealth not just in 
households but in endowments and institutions, we need more 
women to drive our business.

BlackRock looks different three decades later. Our team is 
made up of individuals who are as extraordinary as they are 
different. Today we are men and women of every demographic 
description. We speak more than 100 languages. We work from 
more than 70 offices in 30 countries. 

Above all, the standard by which we evaluate every individual on 
our team must always be performance and nothing else.

We are committed to making it our purpose to continue to 
evolve and improve – to build a more diverse and inclusive firm – 
to serve our clients and to build a better BlackRock. 

Larry Fink 
Founder, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer 
BlackRock

Disclosures

Pay Gaps as at  
5 April 2017

BlackRock UK  
(All UK Employees)

BlackRock Investment 
Management (UK) 
Limited

BlackRock Asset 
Management Investor 
Services Limited

Ordinary Pay Gap

Bonus Pay Gap

Proportion of 
employees who 
received a bonus

Median

28%

45%

Mean

21%

69%

Median

23%

41%

Mean

20%

71%

Median

23%

72%

Mean

17%

50%

BlackRock UK

BlackRock Investment 
Management (UK) 
Limited

BlackRock Asset 
Management Investor 
Services Limited

Female

93%

Male

94%

Female

93%

Male

94%

Female

97%

Male

97%

BlackRock UK

BlackRock Investment 
Management (UK) 
Limited

BlackRock Asset 
Management Investor 
Services Limited

LQ

Q2

Q3

HQ

LQ

Q2

Q3

HQ

LQ

Q2

Q3

HQ

Female 50% 46% 33% 25% 48% 50% 35% 25% 55% 30% 27% 20%

Male

50% 54% 67% 75% 52% 50% 65% 75% 45% 70% 73% 80%

Proportion 
in each 
quartile

Mean: The mean gender pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay for women compared to men.

Median: This is the ‘midpoint’ of all hourly salary/bonus earnings of men and women. If you separately lined up 
all the women in a company and all the men, the median pay gap is the difference between the hourly pay rate 
for the middle woman compared to that of the middle man.

Pay Quartiles: This is the total employee population in this data group listed from highest hourly salary to 
lowest, divided into four equal quartiles.

Pay Gap: This is the percentage difference between the mean and median earnings for men and women, 
expressed relative to men’s earnings.

We verify that the information in this disclosure is accurate.

Rachel Lord  
Head of EMEA

Karen Dennehy 
Head of HR, EMEA

Stacey Mullin 
Chief Operating Officer, 
EMEA

Erica Handling 
General Counsel, 
EMEA

