B e n e   Consulendo
Derbysh i r e
Fire & Rescue   S e r

e

v i c

Derbyshire
Fire & Rescue Service

Making Derbyshire Safer

Gender Pay Gap Report  2017/18

w w w . d e r b y s - f i r e . g o v . u k

Introduction 

 

Derbyshire Fire and Rescue Service (DFRS) is required by law to carry out Gender 
Pay reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017. Gender pay reporting shows the difference between the average 
earnings of men and women within the service. The pay gap is expressed as a 
percentage of men’s earnings e.g. women earn 15% less than men. The purpose of 
gender pay gap reporting is to assess the level of equality in the workplace and 
identify any imbalances. 
 
It is important to note that Gender pay reporting is not the same as an equal pay 
audit. Gender pay reporting is concerned with the difference between an average 
male salary and an average female salary within the service, whereas equal pay 
concerns the salary gap between employees in the same role, rated as equivalent 
using the same job evaluation scheme or where work is of equal value. 
 
Gender Pay Reporting Calculations 
 
Gender pay reporting requires 6 calculations to be carried out. These are detailed 
below; 
 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

Calculating the mean gender pay involves 
adding up all of the hourly pay rates and 
dividing this by the number of employees. 
Calculating the median gender pay involves 
listing all the hourly pay rates in numerical 
order with the median being the middle 
number of the list. 

Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap  Calculating the mean bonus gender pay 

Median Bonus Gender Pay 
Gap 

Proportion of Males and 
Females receiving a bonus 
payment 

Proportion of males and 
females in each quartile band 

involves adding up all of the bonuses and 
dividing this by the number of employees. 
Calculating the median bonus gender pay 
involves listing all the bonuses in numerical 
order with the median being the middle 
number of the list. 
Calculating the proportion receiving a bonus 
involves dividing the number of relevant 
employees who received a bonus by the 
number of relevant who could have 
received a bonus. 
To calculate a quartile range order the 
hourly pay rates in numerical order and split 
the list into 4 equal sections. Then calculate 
how many males and females fall into each 
section. 

 
More detailed information on the gender pay calculations can be found on the ACAS              
website. 
The data used for the calculations is taken from the 31st March 2017 in accordance 
with the Government guidelines. 

Gender Split of Employees working for DFRS 
 
The graphs below show the breakdown of DFRS employees by gender. The graphs 
show that females are significantly underrepresented in the service. This is caused 
by an underrepresentation of females in operational roles rather than support roles. 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Gender Pay Report Calculations 
 
The calculation results for the mean and median pay gap are shown below; 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 3.80% 

Median Gender Pay Gap 2.45% 

£14.53 

£15.11 

£13.52 

£13.86 

The most recent national figures for the mean and median gender pay gaps shows 
that women earn 10% (Labour Force Survey data 2014) and 18.1% (Office for 
National Statistics 2017) less than men respectively. Both the mean and median 
gender pay gap in DFRS are significantly lower than the national figures at 3.80% 
and 2.45% respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The proportion of males and females in each quartile salary band is shown below; 

 

 

The graph shows that the greatest proportion of female salaries fall into the lowest 
quartile salary band and the next highest proportion of salaries fall into the highest 
quartile band. As a result the upper salary band offsets the lower salary band to 
reduce the pay gap between males and females in the service. However, greater 
context can be provided by analysing the salary quartiles when they are broken 
down to operational staff (including control) and support staff as shown in the graphs 
below.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Both of the graphs show that the proportion of males to females in the Upper, Upper 
Middle and Lower Middle quartiles are very similar. The quartile where there is a 
difference is the lower quartile where there is a higher proportion of female salaries 
compared to the other 3 quartiles.  
 
The reason for the disparity in the operational staff graph is because the lowest paid 
roles are control staff and the majority of these post are filled by women. The salary 
of a control operator is 95% of the salary of an operational firefighter. Both 
Operational and Control pay rates are negotiated nationally as part of the Grey Book 
National Joint Council terms & conditions agreed between government and FBU. 
The nationally negotiated 2003 pay formula agreed as part of the sixth Edition Grey 
Book reflects the additional level of danger and onerous working conditions that 
operational firefighters face at incidents compared to their Control counterparts. 
 
The reason for the disparity in the support staff graph is because the lowest paid 
roles are administration posts where again the majority of post are filled by women. 
 
There is no bonus scheme offered at DFRS therefore all the calculations related to 
bonuses are not applicable to DFRS. 

 

Considerations for the Future 

 

The mean and median gender pay gaps are relatively small which shows that female 
employees at DFRS are not disadvantaged compared to their male counterparts. 
However, there are actions that can and have been taken to reduce the gender pay 
gap even further. 
 
It is widely recognised that within the operational firefighter role, females are 
significantly under represented (currently 7% in DFRS). Increasing the number of 
female operational firefighters will reduce the gender pay gap by increasing the 

average female salary. DFRS already conducts positive action activities to try to 
encourage more female and ethnic minority members of Derbyshire to apply to 
become firefighters. 
 
It is also important to recognise that there is an over representation of females in 
control staff and administrations roles. Increasing the number of males in these roles 
would reduce the gender pay gap by reducing the average male salary. This is 
particularly relevant to support roles where the proportion of males to females is 
already split roughly “50:50” in the top 3 quartiles. 
 
 
This report has been consulted upon and approved by the following officers: 
 
Helen Minion – Strategic HR Partner 
Sean Conner – Senior HR Partner 
Davinder Johal – Head of Prevention and Inclusion 
Richard Powers – Business Analyst 
 
Contact Officer:  AM Judi Beresford   Contact No:  01773 305 323 
 
 

