Annual Equality Report
2016-2017

 

 

 

 

Contents

 

Executive summary 

1   Introduction  

2   Our legal duties 

3   Our commitment 

4   About us 

5   Monitoring our progress 

6   Workforce report 

7   Working together 

8   Equality and Health Impact Assessments 

9   Planning for the future 

10  Conclusion 

11  Appendix 

Page

3

4

5

6

6

8

8

9

28

29

30

31

Executive Summary
Welcome to our Annual Equality Report, which covers the reporting 
period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 
This report is focused in two ways: it details the work we have done relating 
to equality during that time, as well as looking at some of the health inequities 
that we have addressed. We have made progress over the last year, and are 
now investing more time and resources in looking at how we can improve our 
work on equality.

This report highlights some of the work we were involved in that promotes 
equality and human rights more widely. It shows how our teams and services 
have worked with people from protected characteristics groups (those 
characteristics protected by law – see page 5 for more information) to better 
understand their needs and improve the services we provide for them.

As an appendix to this report, we have provided a summary of the equality, 
employment and monitoring information relating to our workforce. The 
summary sets out how we are working towards meeting our legal duties. 
It also provides us with a platform to improve how we practise equal 
opportunities and become a more inclusive organisation (one which includes 
people from diverse backgrounds and communities as employees, board 
members and volunteers). We must do more to establish equality further in 
our work so that it is central to what we do.

During 2016–2017 we spent a lot of time and effort considering how we can 
strengthen our commitment to equality. Developing a clear way forward is 
essential for success and we need to include our staff and the public we 
serve in this. 

We are fully committed to achieving what is in our Strategic Equality Plan and 
are looking forward to continuing to work with people from across Wales as 
we fulfil the commitments and objectives set out in the plan.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   3   

1 Introduction
Welcome to our Annual Equality Report which covers the period  
1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 
This report summarises the information we have on equality, diversity and 
inclusion relating to our workforce. It also highlights some of the work we 
have been involved with to promote equality and human rights more widely.  
It provides an account of where we are as an organisation and recognises 
that we still have some way to go in improving our practice relating to equality, 
both now and in the future.

4   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

2 Our legal duties
Under the public-sector equality general duty, public authorities must:
•   eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other 

behaviour prohibited by the Equality Act 2010;

•   treat people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not 

equally; and

•   encourage good relations between people who share a protected 

characteristic and those who do not.

The act provides protection for people with protected characteristics.
These are:

Age
Marriage and civil partnership
Disability  
Gender reassignment
Pregnancy and Maternity

Race
Religion and belief
Sex
Sexuality

As well as the general duty, we must meet the specific duties which are set 
out in the Equality Act 2010 (Statutory Duties) and the (Wales) Regulations 
2011. These duties came into force in Wales on 6 April 2011 and include:
•  developing Strategic Equality Plans which include our equality objectives;
•   involving the public and our partners from protected groups when 

developing plans and policies and shaping services;
•  completing appropriate equality impact assessments;
•   collecting and publishing information about equality, employment and 

differences in pay;

•  promoting equality-based staff training;
•  considering equality when buying services and agreeing contracts;
•  publishing our Annual Equality Report;
•  reviewing our equality plans and objectives to make sure they are current;
•  making sure people can access the information we provide.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   5   

3 Our commitment
To encourage good practice relating to equality and human rights,  
we need to:
•   make sure our leadership is effective and that people at all levels of the 

organisation take responsibility for equality;

•   involve and listen to people with protected characteristics to better 

understand and meet their needs when providing our services;

•   work together as equal partners with people who have protected 

characteristics to improve the services we provide;

•  build on existing good practice and share learning across our organisation;

•  invest in resources to promote equality effectively; and

•   go above and beyond our legal duties by taking positive action on equality 

issues.

We are fully committed to promoting equality and have been making progress 
against the actions and objectives in our revised Strategic Equality Plan 
2016-2020, which was approved by our board in March 2016.

4 About us
We are an all-Wales NHS trust. During the period covered by this report 
(April 2016 to March 2017), we employed around 1700 people. Our staff 
work internationally, nationally and locally to provide a full range of public-
health services.

Our vision is to create a happier, healthier and fairer Wales. We are 
committed to improving people’s health and wellbeing and to reducing 
inequalities in health. We will continue to listen and learn from the people we 
serve, including people who have protected characteristics.

We have been working to fulfil the commitments of our Strategic Plan, which 
sets out how we will work for the people of Wales over the next three years. 
The plan focuses on continuing to improve our services so that they are high 
quality, safe, efficient and effective. 

6   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

We are committed to delivering the following seven priorities.

Priority 1

Adopting and implementing a multi agency system approach 
to achieving significant improvements in our public’s health

Priority 2 Working across sectors to improve the health of our children 

in their early years

Priority 3

Developing and supporting primary and community care 
services to improve the public’s health

Priority 4

Supporting the NHS to improve outcomes for people using 
services

Priority 5

Influencing policy to protect and improve health and reduce 
inequalities

Priority 6

Protecting the public and continuously improving the quality, 
safety andeffectiveness of the services we deliver

Priority 7

Developing the Organisation

 

A
b
o
u
t
 
U
s
 

Public Health Wales

Annual Report 2016 / 17

f 
About Us 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Our Strategic Plan 

Read more

Annual Report 

Read more

Annual Quality Statement 2016/2017

Annual Quality 

Statement 
Read more

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   7   

5 Monitoring our progress
The Chief Executive Officer, together with our board, is responsible for 
making sure we meet our legal duties.
An equality group from within the organisation previously monitored our 
progress against our Strategic Equality Plan 2012-2016. This group was 
made up of representatives from across the organisation who had a 
protected characteristic themselves or had a keen interest in taking equality 
forward. The group has since disbanded, and we are currently reviewing our 
governance arrangements, with plans to introduce a network of “Equality 
Champions”, made up of representatives from each department who have a 
keen interest in equality.

6 Workforce report
Public bodies must keep to their legal duties under section 149 of the 
Equality Act 2010. There are specific duties which they must meet, 
including reporting information about employment, training and pay.
This can include information about the protected characteristics of our staff 
and the people who use our services, or evidence used to develop policies 
and guide our decision-making.

Collecting, using and publishing this information helps us to:
•   understand the effect our policies, practices and decisions have on the 

public and staff with different protected characteristics;

•   make sure we are not discriminating against people with protected 

characteristics;

•   take steps to promote equality and encourage good relations within our 

organisation and more widely;

•  identify our main equality issues;
•  check that our workforce reflects the diversity of the Welsh population;
•  make sure our staff understand the communities they serve;
•   create a more open organisation to help to explain how and why we make 

our decisions; and

•  share with the public our successes in supporting equality.
A full workforce report for the annual reporting period is set out in Appendix 1.

8   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7 Working together
During 2016–2017 we worked with different communities across Wales 
to improve their experiences of the services we provide. The following 
sections highlight some of the work we have been involved with.

7.1 Health and Wellbeing Directorate
The Health and Wellbeing Directorate’s mission is to increase healthy life 
expectancy and narrow health inequalities by promoting wellbeing and by 
preventing avoidable early death, disability and ill health through informing and 
harnessing collective action, transforming services and changing social norms.

The Directorate covers the following areas:

a) Stop Smoking Wales
Stop Smoking Wales (SSW) is a free service which provides expert 
support to smokers who want to stop. The service is available locally 
throughout Wales. It is run by trained advisors who offer support face-to-
face and over the phone.

SSW has been working with a number of different communities to make sure 
people can access their services. This has included the following:
Educating young people
Weekly stop smoking sessions were held in schools and colleges to support 
pupils/students to quit smoking in schools and colleges across Wales
Supporting vulnerable groups
Attending a smoke free event at Caswell clinic; a clinic for offenders or those 
likely to offend and have mental health problems
Setting up a “workplace” group in a residential mental health unit (Park Road 
Houses Cardiff) in  February 2017, working with clients who are in a transition 
period so have left an in-patient  Mental Health hospital before being released 
back into the community
Involvement in community events
Supporting Swansea Sparkle, the biggest Transgender event in Wales, every 
year. This is an awareness and integration event to enable communities to 
find out more about each other and the local support that’s available.
Attending Pride; an annual event for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and 
Transgender community. This included having  an information stand and 
advisers available to answer questions.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   9   

Working with minority ethnic communities
Visits to the Gypsy traveller community to raise awareness of the support 
available to stop smoking.
A workplace stop smoking group was set up for Polish clients. SSW also had 
a member of staff who is Polish so could deliver the support in the language 
of choice.
Promotion of a bilingual service
We promoted the service at the Eisteddfod in Abergavenny in August 2016  
(in the medium of Welsh)
Working with religious groups
A number of visits and talks were given in Mosques to raise awareness of the 
service.

b) Healthy Working Wales
Making sure a workplace is an inclusive and fair environment for everyone 
is mainly the employer’s responsibility. We deliver a number of initiatives 
on behalf of the Welsh Government under the ‘Healthy Working Wales’ 
programme.

The programme include two award schemes – the Corporate Health
Standard, aimed at businesses with over 50 employees, and the Small
Workplace Health award, which is for those businesses with up to 50
employees. The awards focus on good working practices that support 
employees to keep well and stay in work and help employers create a happy, 
healthy and more productive workplace.

The criteria for both awards include involving people and communicating 
with them, adhering to health and safety requirements and equality and 
employment legislation, and preventing and managing absence due to ill 
health.

Healthy Working Wales have been working with businesses in Wales on
equality and diversity.
•   They have supported businesses to meet their legal requirements by 

helping them develop and put policies in place, and by helping them to 
understand their responsibilities and share good practice.

•   They have helped businesses to understand how they can prevent long 
term sickness absence, with practices that include supporting employees 
who are ill and in work, helping people return to work earlier from illness by 

10   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

making reasonable adjustments (for example, providing extra support for a 
disabled worker) and identifying measures that can help prevent long-term 
sickness absence.

•   They have worked with local GPs and officers from the Department for 

Work and Pensions to support people who are off work through ill health or 
are unemployed due to a disability or a long-term medical condition.

•   They have shared good practice between businesses, particularly relating 

to inclusive employment practices. 

•   They have supported organisations to achieve the platinum level of the 

Corporate Health Standard, which requires businesses to meet a number 
of criteria relating to corporate social responsibility and community 
engagement.

•   They have helped businesses to review their policies so that staff and 

managers know how to use them to support good employment practices 
that promote a diverse workforce.

C) Public Health Observatory
The Public Health Wales Health Intelligence division support local and 
national partners by providing information to help tackle public-health 
issues, improve people’s health and health services, and reduce health 
inequalities.

They provide information and guidance, and work with others to improve the 
quality of information available on health and health services in Wales. They 
are responsible for producing:
•  in-depth publications;
•  reports on specific health topics;
•  health profiles for particular locations;
•  guides to health statistics;
•  interactive health maps;
•  information about existing resources;
•  literature searches;
•  research evidence reviews;
•  evidence maps; and
•  support to projects and programmes.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   11   

In 2016 and 2017 Health Intelligence has published the Public Health 
Outcomes Framework reporting tool. The tool provides information on a 
number of important public health indicators and where possible these have 
been are broken down by age, sex, deprivation and disability; currently 34 of 
the 43 indicators can be broken down into some, if not all, of these categories 

The indicators  
can be found here

The tool  

can be found here

The Child Measurement Programme publishes  
an annual report monitoring the weights of  
4-5 year olds in Wales; this report provides data  
on weight by sex, deprivation and ethnicity and  
is available here.

The Child Measurement 
Programme for Wales 
2015/16

d) Local Public Health
Cardiff and Vale Public Health Team worked with Cardiff and Vale 
University Health Board (UHB) to develop an impact assessment tool that 
combines the requirements of equality impact assessments with health 
impact assessments. 

The tool was piloted during April and May 2016 and approved during summer 
2016 and is to be used when developing and revising all UHB policies, 
programmes, plans and procedures. The tool will strengthen UHB practices 
and support it to deal with health needs in communities and population 
groups who have the poorest health.

Cardiff and Vale Public Health Team considers equality and fairness issues by 
working with their partners and stakeholders, Communities First programmes, 
neighbourhoods, and GPs who work with other health and care professionals 
to plan and provide services locally. An example of a Communities First 
project is when services worked together to influence the uptake of childhood 
immunisations in black and minority communities in south Cardiff.

12   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7.2 Public Health Services Directorate
The Public Health Services Mission is: To protect the public and reduce 
the burden of disease and infection and provide screening for other health 
conditions in an asymptomatic population.
The Directorate covers Screening, Health Protection and Microbiology. Work 
towards advancing equality during this period is as follows:

a) Screening Division
Screening Division manages seven national screening programmes in 
Wales on behalf of the Welsh Government. These include the following.

•  Breast Test Wales
•  Cervical Screening Wales
•  Bowel Screening Wales
•  Wales Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Screening Programme
•  Diabetic Eye Screening Wales
•  Newborn Hearing Wales
•  Newborn Bloodspot Wales
The division also manages Antenatal Screening Wales.
Screening is a process of finding apparently healthy people who may be at 
increased risk of a disease or condition. By having a screening test, people 
can be offered information, further tests and treatment to reduce their risk or 
any complications arising from the disease or condition.

The Screening Engagement Team is part of our Screening Division and helps 
screening programmes by working closely with communities from across 
Wales. The team have also done the following to promote equality.
•   Invitation Letter Review - The Screening Division commissioned Learning 
Disability Wales and Sight Loss Cymru to undertake a review of screening 
invitation letters. A focus group with service users with a learning disability 
was undertaken to review current invitation letters. Recommendations 
were made to make the letters more accessible and are currently being 
considered by the Screening Division Core Public Information Group. 

•   Easy Read Resources - The Screening Division commissioned Learning 

Disability Wales to assist with the development of easy read information 
on Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) testing and informed decision making. 
Service user engagement events were set up with service users with a 
learning disability and were facilitated by LD Wales and SET. Learning 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   13   

Disability Wales drafted the easy read leaflets; this information is currently 
undergoing wider engagement.

•   ESOL (English for speakers of other languages) - A collaborative project 

is underway between Velindre Cancer Centre, Screening Division, Cardiff 
and Vale College and Local Public Health to develop an educational cancer 
and screening awareness resource to be delivered through ESOL (English 
Speakers of Other Languages) classes. An ESOL specialist has been 
appointed (funded through Velindre Charitable funds) to develop and pilot 
the resource.

•   Audit Tool - Action on Hearing Loss was commissioned to develop an 

audit tool for screening to ensure that all screening venues and clinics are 
fully accessible for people with a sensory loss.

•   Wales Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Programme (WAAASP) have 

undertaken Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Screening (AAA) screening in Parc 
Prison, Usk and Prescoed HMP during 2016-17.

b) Immunisation and Vaccine Preventable Disease Programme
Immunisation saves lives. The World Health Organisation estimates 
that worldwide, two to three million lives are saved every year through 
immunisation. It is important that all children and babies are fully 
immunised to protect them from potentially serious diseases. Adults also 
benefit from immunisation. Some people will need immunisations to protect 
their health in work, when travelling, or if they are at increased risk due to 
their age or a medical condition.

Our Vaccine Preventable Disease Programme (VPDP) has worked with 
a number of different stakeholders and services to make immunisation 
programmes more accessible and increase the number of people who have 
the recommended vaccines.

This has included:
•  a multi-language flu newsletter which was shared across Wales
•   an online eligibility checker for the children’s flu vaccine. This was 

developed to help easily identify children who meet the criteria for the flu 
vaccine. It also supports access to the service for those who may have 
literacy problems.

•   an online eligibility checker for shingles vaccine. This was developed to 

help easily identify who meets the criteria for the vaccine. It also supports 
access to the service for those who may have literacy problems

14   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

Influenza
Evidence shows the number of patients with chronic liver disease who have 
the flu vaccine is low compared with other clinical risk groups. People in 
this group may be less likely to be involved with our services for a number 
of reasons, so to try and increase uptake in this group, the team have 
been working with staff in this field to better understand why people don’t 
have the flu vaccine and to consider what can be done to help. The team 
has developed a flyer promoting the vaccine in collaboration and shared 
it throughout their networks. Flu vaccine uptake in this clinical risk group 
increased by 1.7% where as other risk groups saw vaccine uptake remained 
very similar or dropped when compared to the previous season. (table 1)

Risk group
Chronic liver disease

Chronic kidney disease

Chronic respiratory disease

Neurological conditions

Chronic heart disease

Immunosuppression

Diabetes

Morbidly obese*

2015/16
40.6%

2016/17
42.3%

51.2%

46.4%

44.6%

46.7%

55.9%

62.3%

34.8%

51.3%

46.5%

44.7%

46.7%

55.8%

60.9%

31.0%

Trend
1.7%

0.1%

0.1%

0.1%

0.0%

-0.1%

-1.4%

-3.8%

Meningococcal Groups ACWY vaccine programme for young people
In 2015 In response to a rapid rise in cases of meningococcal disease caused 
by the W serogroup (MenW) in the UK,a meningitis vaccine campaign aimed 
at young people began, the campaign offered a two year catch up programme 
in Wales. The vaccination is offered to all young people aged 13-20, and 
university freshers under 25 years of age.

The Office of National Statistics report from 2016 shows that young people 
in the UK aged 16 to 24 were most likely to take part in online activities to do 
with leisure or recreation, such as social networking (92%) or education and 
training (59%). With the support of stakeholders such as, meningitis charities 
and ambassadors, sports personalities, TV presenters and actors, we 
developed activities to raise awareness of the importance of the meningitis 
vaccine ’Men ACWY’. These were primarily online to best reach the target 
group, and have included a website www.menACWY.co.uk 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   15   

The website content includes graphics and an eligibility checker, and through 
the Meningitis Research Foundation, we got in touch with two girls who have 
survived meningitis, and asked them to film themselves telling their story and 
encouraging others to get vaccinated. These stories were edited and shared 
across our social channels (Table 1).
Table 1. Number of views of video stories (to January 2017)

Number of Views 

Facebook 

Twitter 

Charlotte’s Story 
English 

Cymraeg 

Sophie’s Story

English 

Cymraeg 

8388 

2286 

4 

37 

5284 

1672 

2 

45 

A voxpop style video was also developed and proved very popular (table 2). 
Table 2. Number of views of voxpop video

Views 
Facebook 

Twitter 

English 
6509 

971 

Welsh 

22 

10 

Social media was utilised and the number of individuals who saw one or more 
of our posts during the campaign period was 230,950 (table 3).
Table 3. Total social media reach

Facebook 

Twitter

English 

72,288 

Cymraeg 

262 

English 

154,300 

Cymraeg 

4,100

16   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7.3 1000 Lives

1000 Lives Improvement is the national improvement service for NHS Wales 
and our aim is to support the NHS to improve outcomes for people using 
services in Wales. It is integrated into the work of every health board and trust 
in Wales, supporting national and local improvement programmes across 
primary, community and acute care. Welsh universities, voluntary and public 
sector organisations are all involved in our work. During 2016-17 the work to 
further equality includes:
•   A programme to improve equity of access to both mental health and 
physical health provision by individuals with a learning disability and 
support  for the roll out of the Health Equalities Framework

•   A programme to improve the consistency and dignity of care in older 

people’s wards by focusing on the creation of therapeutic environments, 
culture and relationships and the provision of evidenced based activities to 
promote individualised care

•   A programme to develop the Falls Prevention National Taskforce which is 

aligned to the Aging well in Wales Expert Advisory group a collaborative 
group from across Public Health Wales, NHS Wales, public bodies and 
third sector partners that have expertise in falls prevention

7.4 People and Organisational Development

The People and Organisational Development Directorate covers all 
employment, and people related issues, ensuring that the organisation 
recruits, develops and retains the right people, in the right place at the  
right time.

The work of the Directorate includes the following areas:

a) Employee health and wellbeing
Our aim for our people is that they’re healthy, well engaged, and treated 
fairly, which will enable our strategic aim of a healthier, happier, and fairer 
Wales to translate to our workplaces. With this approach in mind, all of the 
actions we have taken, and are planning for in the future, are designed to 
ensure that we support equality for all employees.  

The work we have been undertaking towards enhancing employee wellbeing 
has allowed us to finalise a date for our assessment for the Bronze level 
of the Corporate Health Award, which will be undertaken in June 2017.  

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   17   

We have also begun to map out the actions required to work through the 
remaining award levels. 

We are working on our action plan in order to make our organisational pledge 
to Time to Change Wales (TTCW) to show our commitment to change how 
we think and act about mental health in the workplace, and to make sure that 
any of our people facing these problems feel supported. 

We are planning pilot sessions for mindfulness training, with a view to offering 
a longer term programme subject to feedback and evaluation. 

We are in the process of procuring mental health training and development 
for both employees and managers, to ensure that we provide support at times 
of need. 

We continue to provide an enabling range of policies and procedures to 
support our people, including our revised flexible working policy, supporting 
flexible working toolkit, childcare voucher scheme and childcare holiday 
subsidy scheme. 

b) People and organisational learning
The Organisational Development and Learning Team supports workforce 
and professional development across the whole of the national public-
health system. They are responsible for creating learning and development 
opportunities for our staff and work with staff to promote equality and 
diversity training. They continue to monitor staff and make sure they have 
completed the mandatory ‘Treat me Fairly’ e-learning module.

c) Recruitment
We are continuing to make sure our recruitment and selection processes 
are inclusive. We have also moved from the ‘Positive about Disability - Two 
Ticks’ scheme to the new ‘Disability Confident’ scheme, and are currently 
at “Disability Confident – Committed” level. We will be reviewing how we 
continue to meet the requirements of the scheme, with the aim to advance 
to “Disability Confident Employer” level 2 in 2017.

d) Electronic staff record
The electronic staff record (ESR) is the NHS human resources and payroll 
system used throughout Wales and England. The team responsible for this 
has continued to provide ESR training to our staff, including reinforcing the 
importance of recording information about equality (‘equality data’).

18   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

e) Our values
We have held a series of focus groups with a range of staff to develop a 
set of values for our organisation. This work is ongoing with the new values 
due to be officially launched in the All Staff Conference in April 2017.

f) Welsh language
Data presented in our Welsh Language Scheme Monitoring Report 
2016-17 suggests reasonable compliance in relation to policy-making. 
Welsh language requirements have been incorporated within the new 
‘Policies, Procedures and Other Written Control Documents Management 
Policy’ including a requirement to undertake a Welsh Language Impact 
Assessment.

The new Recruitment Policy and Procedures incorporate relevant Welsh 
Language Scheme and potential Welsh Language Operational Standards 
Regulations. Incorporation of these requirements in recruitment procedures  
is underway, and a Welsh Language Skills Strategy has been developed,  
the aim of which will be to increase the organisation’s capacity to deliver 
services in Welsh. ‘Linguistic Courtesy’ training was piloted in early 2017.  
The Executive Team will consider options for wider roll-out in due course.

The data suggests that our performance against our information technology 
commitments has improved marginally since the previous monitoring period. 
24 (65%) of our 37 websites are now fully bilingual, compared to 22 (63%) in 
2015-16. 

Welsh Language Standards Regulations for NHS Wales Boards and Trusts 
will replace our Welsh Language Scheme within the next 12 months. It is 
estimated that Public Health Wales will be required to be compliant with 
some of the standards by the end of 2018. In 2016 directorates and divisions 
began to assess their compliance against potential standards and identify 
action required to achieve full compliance. Over the next 12 months this 
approach will be accelerated and honed in order to ensure full compliance 
with our Welsh Language Scheme and future Welsh Language Standards 
Regulations. 

We have included in the Public Health Wales’ Strategic Plan 2017-20 a 
commitment to ensure that the ‘Welsh language is embedded in everything 
we do’. In order to fulfil this commitment we are effecting a step change in 
our thinking and approaches, and starting to work in a different way. We 
are broadening our single corporate Welsh language action plan approach 
to include comprehensive Welsh language planning – including bilingual 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   19   

workforce planning - at directorate / division level across our organisation. 
This approach requires clear accountabilities and performance management 
arrangements at this level. We will ensure that there are robust systems 
of governance and internal control in relation to the implementation of 
directorate / divisional action plans by holding the Executive Directors to 
account. We will review internal systems and arrangements to support 
directorates and ensure quality, consistency and value for money. 

Over the next two years there will be sustained focus and momentum with 
regard to achieving our Welsh language commitments, and the People 
and Organisational Development Committee, Executive Team and Public 
Health Wales Board will receive regular progress reports. We will continue 
to produce annual monitoring reports for the Public Health Wales Board, the 
Welsh Language Commissioner, and the Welsh Government.

7.5 Quality, Nursing and Allied Health Professionals Directorate

The Quality, Nursing and Allied Health Professionals (QNAHP) Directorate 
has overall accountability for quality across the organisation (including 
handling concerns and claims) and is professionally accountable for nurses 
and midwives in addition to Allied Health Professionals (AHP’s) including 
biomedical scientists. The Directorate is also responsible for Information 
Governance and Risk within the organisation in addition to the having the 
National Safeguarding Team and the Centre for Equality and Human Rights 
sitting within the Directorate.
The Directorate covers:

a) Service users
A service user’s experience can be defined as ‘What it feels like to be a 
user of the NHS in Wales’. A service user can be defined as someone who 
uses or has access to health services in any setting, including their families 
and unpaid carers (Welsh Government, 2015).

Finding out the views of people who use our services and programmes is 
very important to us. We are working to establish the national service user 
experience framework within our organisation, which describes what makes 
a good experience for our service users and sets out how best we can collect 
feedback from people.

20   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

During the reporting period, the Service User Experience Team has done the 
following:
•  obtained feedback from over 7700 people
•   Took part in 251 engagement activities involving both the public and wider 

stakeholders

•   Presented a range of experiences/stories to the Quality, Safety and 
Improvement Committee, Board and the People and Organisational 
Development Committee, including those from:
-   Romani-Gypsy Traveller stories of issues affecting their health and 

wellbeing.

-  Barnardo’s – describing some of the inequalities faced by young people.
-  A young person’s perspective of working at Public Health Wales.
-  Experience of working at Public Health Wales with a sensory loss.
-  Domestic abuse – a victim’s perspective.

b) Safeguarding
The term ‘safeguarding’ can apply to both adults and children and is about 
protecting them, preventing abuse or neglect, and educating those around 
them to recognise the signs and dangers.

We and our staff have a legal duty to safeguard people who come into
contact with and access our services who are at risk of abuse. Our work is 
supported by legislation that includes the United Nations Convention on the 
Rights of the Child, the Children Act (1989 and 2004), the Human Rights 
Act (1998), the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act (2014) and the 
Violence against Women, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence Act (2015). 
Our work is also based on establishing the main principles and core values 
arising from national reports and strategies, including In Safe Hands (2009), 
the Wales Interim Policy and Procedures for the Protection of Vulnerable 
Adults from Abuse (2013) and Prevent, the anti-terrorism strategy.

All of our safeguarding policies and procedures emphasise the above
legislation and guidance, which have equality fixed very firmly within them. 
These policies include the domestic abuse and sexual violence policy, 
the safeguarding children and adults at risk supervision procedure, the 
safeguarding strategy, the safeguarding training strategy, the safeguarding 
policy and procedure, and the prevent policy and referral process. All of these 
policies consider the individual needs of our service users. All safeguarding 
policies and procedures are monitored by our Safeguarding Group and the 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   21   

Quality, Safety and Improvement Committee and then examined further 
before they are approved.

During the reporting period the Safeguarding Team worked with the Policy, 
Research and International Development Directorate. They checked research 
proposals submitted to make sure that any safeguarding issues in the 
research were identified and dealt with.

The team have also been working with staff to raise awareness and 
confidence when managing safeguarding concerns, and have delivered 
training for staff which has the principles of equality at its core. The training 
covered a wide range of issues, such as female genital mutilation, honour 
based violence, forced marriage, human trafficking, modern-day slavery and 
domestic abuse.

The team regularly sit on ‘task-and-finish’ groups relating to these issues and 
respond to consultation documents. Throughout the reporting period these 
consultations included the following:
•   NICE guidance on harmful sexual behaviour among children and young 

people

•   Draft statutory guidance on multi-agency collaboration in respect of 

violence against women, domestic abuse and sexual violence

•   Draft statutory guidance on ‘Ask and Act’ under section 15 of the Violence 

against Women, Domestic Abuse and Sexual Violence Act

•  Social Services and Well-being Act

c) Centre for Equality and Human Rights
During 2016/17 the Centre for Equality and Human Rights (CEHR) 
delivered a challenging Operational Plan in an ever changing world. 
Particular highlights are walking our own talk and employing a new staff 
member using the services of Elite Supported Employment Agency. This 
embodies the spirit of Project Enable, a supported employment internship 
programme and the work that the Centre has been instrumental in and has 
promoted over the past nine years. Vale People First also designed a logo 
for our new webpage to help us develop awareness of what supported 
employment offers people and employers. 

In collaboration with Women Connect First, the Centre supported an 
internship of one day per week for a period of 6 months to undertake a project 
focused on developing a deeper understanding of the specific barriers to 
employment BME women in Wales face and to create opportunities for Black 

22   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

and Minority Ethnic women to gain invaluable experience in the workplace. 
The Centre collaborated with colleagues across NHS Wales, Welsh 
Government and the Third Sector to gain approval for a new Accessible 
Information Standard which will be implemented in 2017/18. The Standard 
will mandate GP surgeries and hospital services to capture, record, flag and 
share the communication needs of patients with sensory loss and is essential 
to delivering the All Wales Standards for Accessible Communication and 
Information published in 2013 

The Centre also created a campaign video capturing both patient and 
healthcare professionals’ stories to support ‘It Makes Sense – Sensory Loss 
Awareness Month 2016’ which was celebrated during November. 

The Centre sponsored the Stories of Health and Wellness Project led and 
delivered by the Romani Cultural and Arts Company and a team of trained 
Community Champions from the Romani and Travellers communities which 
concluded with a report that was launched in April 2017. Over 100 audio 
interviews were carried out with young parents and older carers about their 
experiences of accessing health and wellness provision in Wales. The 
experiences of many families can testify to the difficulties they have had 
in accessing quality health and wellness services; some of these relate to 
the traditional lifestyle and culture that many Romani and Traveller people 
still follow in Wales, however, some relate to the challenges that Romani 
and Traveller families face stemming from prejudice and discrimination. 
These stories will join the “Tales from the Trailers” heritage exhibition and 
the Romani Waggon (vardo) that is part of the permanent exhibition that the 
museum holds.

The Centre also collaborated with the Romani Cultural and Arts Company, 
GIRES and Barod Community Interest Company to scope content for three 
new e-learning modules about healthcare for: the Gypsy Traveller and 
Roma community; the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans community, and 
the Learning Disability community. These new modules will be launched in 
2017/2018.

The Centre has been collaborating with the Welsh Ambulance Services NHS 
Trust, NHS Direct, Stonewall Cymru and Rainbow Research to deliver a 
scoping and evaluation exercise, leading to an updated NHS Direct website 
which is content appropriate in relation to healthcare services supporting the 
LGBT community.

The Centre facilitated a series of “Have Your Say Events” to gather information 
from the community and primary care staff about the barriers and opportunities 
to providing good primary care for Trans patients across Wales. This initiative 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   23   

was supported by Stonewall Cymru and Unique Transgender Network and 
included online surveys to reach people unable to attend the events and 
primary care staff. The outcomes will be shared with GP practices across 
Wales with a view to improving guidance and showcasing best practice. 

And finally, the Centre commissioned a Review of the future focus and 
potential contribution of the CEHR in the context of the Well-being of Future 
Generations (Wales) Act 2015. The Review was undertaken by the University 
of South Wales and has provided a set of recommendations that will inform 
the development of our Operational Plan for 2017/18. 

7.6 Policy, Research & International Development (PRID)

The Policy, Research & International Development Directorate supports the 
development of, and advocates for, policies to improve health and well-being 
and reduce inequalities in Wales and abroad. 

The Directorate consists of three Divisions which work closely together and 
are supported by the Business Admin Team. 

We aim to ensure that local, national and international learning from 
policies, research and practices are brought together to support the broader 
organisation and our partners across Wales and abroad.

An Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) was conducted at the outset of the 
development of Public Health Wales’ International Health Strategy. The 
assessment identified that the strategy was of low relevance and impact, 
and that there was an opportunity to engage with stakeholders which is 
considered to be an important part of the EIA process.

All Policy, Research and International Development Directorate events offer 
accessibility requirements to delegates as standard; in 2016/2017 these 
offers were not required. 

The Public Health Network Cymru website features the latest publications, 
research and events related to a variety of topics, including those related 
to protected characteristics, looking at public health through the lenses of 
gender, faith groups, ethnicity and sexuality. 

24   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7.7 Operations and Finance Directorate

The Operations and Finance Directorate is an enabling directorate which 
provides Finance, IT, strategy & Planning, Facilities and Communications 
services to the other directorates in order to support delivery against the 
organisational objectives:

a) Our Space
Our Space was created as a programme to create modern, open plan, 
collaborative workplaces for our staff. The first project was to bring 
together staff from 10 sites across South East Wales into one building 
in Cardiff. After working with our Executive Team, staff and NHS Estates 
Specialists to develop an options appraisal and selection criteria, the 
chosen site was No 2 Capital Quarter (CQ2) – a new building in between 
Cardiff’s centre and Bay areas.

Following an extensive procurement exercise a consortium of Rype Office, 
Greenstream Flooring and Orangebox were appointed to plan and create our 
interior design and fit-out. The brief was to create a sustainable work place 
that recycled, reused or remanufactured furniture from our existing sites or 
where possible, sourced from suitable local providers. We also required the 
consortium to provide training and job opportunities for local people who were 
disabled and/or long term unemployed. The consortium recruited and trained 
6 people in techniques to remanufacture and prepare all our furniture. 

The Our Space project team organised numerous staff engagement 
newsletters, workshops, market place events and visits to CQ2 during the 
fit out. These were opportunities for the Our Space team to meet with staff 
and managers to identify their needs and aspirations for the new working 
environment and to help staff become familiar with their new surroundings 
and location in Cardiff.

We worked with the RNIB Cymru Access Advisor who advised us and our 
interior designer on accessible design, colour contrasting and Light Reflective 
Values for materials. This had a big influence on the design of the carpeted 
walkways across CQ2, the style and layout of the tea points and staff room 
and our overall colour palette. 

We also had discussions with staff and our interior designers about concerns 
some staff had raised about vertigo. The floorplans take account of this and 
no desks are positioned near the Atrium. 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   25   

The team commissioned Accessibility Wales to undertake an Access Audit of 
CQ2 prior to staff moving in. The overall feedback was favourable including 
feedback on the kitchens and steps that had been taken by the team and 
designer to incorporate accessible design features in the tea point and staff 
room. There were some issues that were the responsibility of the landlord and 
these were raised accordingly.

In line with good practice, modern office design the project team provided a 
Mother’s room which includes a fridge and chair to provide a confidential and 
comfortable environment for our staff who have returned to work following 
maternity leave and are still breastfeeding.

At a very practical level all disabled staff and members of staff with restricted 
mobility were offered the opportunity to develop a Personal Evacuation 
Plan with their line manager and the Estates and Health and Safety team. 
Similarly all staff with adapted chairs to take account of their personal needs 
were invited to bring them to CQ2 or have the new G64 task chair which was 
being provided to staff as standard. Staff who were unsure were given the 
opportunity to trial the new chair before the move and some individuals made 
the decision to switch to the new chair.

A key component of Our Space is to enable our staff to connect across 
our sites and work in a more collaborative and inclusive manner, reduce 
the need for travel and promote better work/life balance. The Our Space 
programme has installed state of the art AV technology facilitate this improved 
collaboration and similar equipment is being provided across our sites.

In preparation for the move we developed a parking guide for staff and a 
parking lottery for eligible staff located at CQ2. All disabled staff who wish to 
drive to work have been provided with parking spaces in the onsite car park. 
Temporary spaces are also provided for staff returning to work from surgery 
or requiring a phased return to the work place following illness.

The Our Space programme has won numerous national and international 
awards for its approach to sustainability – reuse, recycling and 
remanufacturing – and promoting the Circular Economy.

26   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7.8 Diversity on Boards

The Welsh Government supports the view that public bodies should have 
board members who represent people from all walks of life – to help them 
understand people’s needs when taking decisions.
However, for many boards in Wales, this is not the case ─ many groups 
(including those from black and ethnic minorities and disabled people) are 
significantly under-represented. Progress has been made in recent years in 
achieving a more appropriate balance of the sexes at board level, but people 
from a more diverse range of backgrounds and life experiences still need to 
be encouraged to apply for board membership.
The Trust participated in the Welsh Government’s All Aboard Programme 
(a Positive Action programme to encourage people from under-represented 
groups to apply for public office appointments) Whilst this commenced 
in 2015 and was initially planned to last a year a decision was made to 
extend this into 2016/17. This allowed the individual to further develop 
their knowledge and experience at Board level. They were invited to fully 
participate in all Board activities, including Board development sessions.

The CEHR created a digital story about the experiences of participants 
on the programme. To view the digital stories please click here.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   27   

8
   

 Equality and Health Impact 
Assessments

An integrated tool that combined the processes for Equality Impact 
Assessments (EQIAs) and Health Impact Assessments (HIAs) was 
launched in September 2016. 
This built on the work already undertaken by the Cardiff and Vale Local Public 
Health Team and the integrated tool streamlines the process to be used to 
assist with developing policies, procedures and service changes enabling 
informed decision making.

The Policies, Procedures and Other Written Control Documents Policy 
and Procedure require that Equality and Health Impact Assessments are 
completed for all policies in development. This has increased the profile of 
equality at Board and Committee as the assessments start to come forward. 
These assessments are also published on the internet and intranet. 

Further training on use of the tool is planned for 2017. 

28   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

9 Planning for the future
Our Strategic Equality Plan was approved in March 2016. It sets out  
a clear plan for the future with clearly defined objectives, including  
the following:

Equality objectives 2016 -2020
Objective 1

Involve and work with communities and people of 
all ages, including those who represent groups with 
protected characteristics, and use their insights to support 
and direct our work.
Communicate our messages in ways that everyone can 
access, including people with protected characteristics.
Make sure all our policies and decisions treat all groups of 
people fairly and include everyone.
Build a closer working relationship with other public-
sector partners to improve how we gather and analyse 
information.
Be recognised as a fair, inclusive and innovative employer.

Objective 2

Objective 3

Objective 4

Objective 5

We are fully committed to delivering against the actions in the plan.
For more information about our Strategic Equality Plan click here.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   29   

10 Conclusion
There are numerous challenges to face in pursuing our aim of achieving 
full equality across everything we do. Our organisation will continue 
to strive towards this with further work in 2017-2018 planned for 
programmes such as Our Space, where we will be moving into new 
accommodation in Matrix house, Swansea.
Our revised Strategic Equality Plan has now been in place for a year, and we 
continue to work towards meeting our objectives.

Further work in 2017–2018 is already underway for programmes such as Our 
Space. Our teams will continue to work in the community with the people who 
use the services we provide. 

We need to do more work to make sure equality continues to become a 
fundamental part of our business. To do this we must get support from  all 
directorates, divisions and teams.

We need to establish equality within our plans so that we properly consider 
and monitor the effects and outcomes of our work on people with protected 
characteristics. We should support innovation, encourage good practice and 
challenge poor practice. All of this must be done in partnership with people 
from protected groups.

In doing all of these things we will strengthen how we work, and truly 
demonstrate our commitment to the people we serve.

30   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

Appendix 1

Public Health Wales Workforce Equality Monitoring Report
Reporting period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017

 

Introduction 

Contents
 
Executive summary 
1 
2  Challenges in collecting information 
3  Our workforce 
4  Gender 
5  Ethnicity 
6  Disability 
7  Age 
8  Religion and belief 
9  Sexuality 
10  Gender reassignment 
11  Marriage and civil partnership 
12  Recruitment and selection 
13  Disciplinary and grievance 
14  Leaving us 
15  Training 
16  Procurement 
17  Gender Pay Gap 
18  Conclusion 

Page
32
33
33
34
35
37
38
39
39
40
40
40
41
44
44
45
45
46
47

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   31   

Executive Summary
The purpose of this report is to show how we are working towards 
meeting our general and specific duties as defined in the public-sector 
equality duty (2011). The report summarises the equality, employment and 
training data (information) we hold about staff, and covers the period 1 April 
2016 to 31 March 2017. 

As an organisation we are working hard to make sure that we are inclusive in 
the services and programmes we provide and, as an employer, in relation to 
how we recruit, retain and develop our staff. However, the information we have 
about our employees tells us we still have some way to go to be fully inclusive.

We need to look at:
•   creating job opportunities for people who may have one or more 

protected characteristics;

•   ensuring the way we recruit staff is fully accessible, flexible and 

inclusive and that we advertise posts in a way that attracts a range of 
talent;

•   considering giving more people access to our organisation through 

offering, for example, apprenticeships, work experience, placements 
and volunteering opportunities to people with protected characteristics;

•   continuing to encourage staff to attend and complete appropriate 

equality training; 

•   working with staff to explain the importance of recording equality 

information and how we use this in our work;

•   strengthening our approach to and understanding of impact 

assessments, and making service providers and policymakers aware of 
the benefits of these assessments;

•   making sure equality is an essential part of our procurement process 

(how we buy services);

•   better understanding any pay differences between men and women and 

taking action to reduce these differences; and  

•  working towards being an inclusive workplace. 

32   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

1 Introduction
The purpose of this report is to show that we meet the public-sector 
equality duty (2011) relating to our general and specific employment 
duties. It summarises the monitoring information we hold relating to equality 
and employment for the period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. 

The Equality Act 2010 public-sector equality duty (section 149) states public 
authorities must acknowledge the need to: 

•   eliminate unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation and other 

behaviour prohibited by the act; 

•   treat people who share a protected characteristic and those who do not 

equally; and

•   encourage good relations between people who share a protected 

characteristic and those who do not.

The public sector duty sets out specific duties which we must keep to. This 
report shows how we are working towards meet these duties.

2 Challenges in collecting information 
We have taken the information contained within this report from a 
number of sources. These include the electronic staff record (ESR), 
NHS Jobs recruitment systems and our training and human resources 
information. It is fair to say that there are challenges in how this information 
is collected, not just for us but across the health sector. 

The information we have on equality relies on staff voluntarily reporting it 
themselves through the ESR. We are currently training managers in the 
importance of collecting this information and ESR developments that are 
currently being introduced will make it easier for employees to record their 
own information.

Recruitment information is only held within the TRAC online recruitment 
system. There are also national issues to do with equality information for new 
starters being transferred to the ESR from NHS Jobs. Employment services 
within NHS Wales Shared Service Partnership are currently looking at this 
issue. 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   33   

3 Our workforce
At 31 March 2017, we employed 1704 staff. 
•  1305 were women and 399 men. 

•  217 were aged under 30.

•  937 were aged between 31 and 49.

•  550 were aged 50 or over. 

•   49 people were from black and minority-ethnic backgrounds and 1172 from 

other white backgrounds. 497 did not state their ethnic background. 

•   35 people considered themselves to be disabled and 849 said they were 

not disabled. 236 did not declare their disability status and 584 did not 
respond. 

•   20 people identified as lesbian, gay or bisexual, while 1066 identified as 

heterosexual. 251 did not declare their sexuality and 367 did not respond. 

•   649 people identified as Christian, 214 identified as atheist and 120 

people identified as ‘Other’. Other faiths represented in the workforce were 
Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam and Sikhism. A total of 333 people did not tell 
us their religious belief and 370 did not respond. 

34   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

4 Gender
Women make up most of our workforce, with 76.4% of employees being 
female and 23.6% being male at 31 March 2017. The information in the 
following tables covers the reporting period 2016-2017.
a) Pay
Table 1: Staff pay band by sex

Grade
Band 1

Band 2

Band 3

Band 4

Band 5

Band 6

Band 7

Band 8a

Band 8b

Band 8c

Band 8d

Band 9

Medical & Dental

Other

Female

Male

3

76

207

181

141

224

188

94

39

33

24

32

27

65

0

23

56

48

42

62

54

26

16

14

3

5

5

16

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   35   

b) Staff group
Table 2: Staff group by sex

Staff Group
Add Prof Scientific and Technic

Additional Clinical Services

Administrative and Clerical

Allied Health Professionals

Estates and Ancillary

Healthcare Scientists

Medical and Dental

Nursing and Midwifery Registered
Total

c) Contract type and working patterns
Table 3: Staff contract type by sex

Contract Type

Permanent

Fixed Term

Table 4: Working pattern by sex

Employee Type

Full Time

Part Time

Female

Male 

10

230

755

52

3

150

79

56
1335

Female

1177

159

Female

44.13

32.39

0

59

219

21

 

44

16

10
369

Male

314

54

Male

20.13

3.29

36   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

5 Ethnicity
Staff ethnicity is recorded on the ESR, which relies on staff providing 
the information themselves. As it is not compulsory for staff to supply these 
details, we only have a partial picture of our ethnic profile. A large number 
(483) of our workforce chose not to state their ethnicity. We are doing further 
work with staff, through ESR training and staff meetings, to explain the 
importance of providing this information and to encourage staff to do so. 
Table 5: The ethnic origin of our workforce 

Ethnic Group
A White - British
B White - Irish
C White - Any other White background
C3 White Unspecified
CA White English
CB White Scottish
CC White Welsh
CP White Polish
CQ White ex-USSR
CY White Other European
D Mixed - White & Black Caribbean
E Mixed - White & Black African
F Mixed - White & Asian
G Mixed - Any other mixed background
H Asian or Asian British - Indian
J Asian or Asian British - Pakistani
K Asian or Asian British - Bangladeshi
L Asian or Asian British - Any other Asian background
LH Asian British
M Black or Black British - Caribbean
N Black or Black British - African
R Chinese
S Any Other Ethnic Group
SB Japanese
Unspecified
Z Not Stated
Grand Total

Headcount

919
10
23
35
14
*
164
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
11
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
69
414
1,704

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   37   

As 952 of our employees gave their ethnicity as being white, consideration 
should be given as to how, when recruiting, we can make our workforce more 
diverse, representative of our local communities and attract the wealth of 
skills and expertise this brings. 

6 Disability
We collect information about people with disabilities using a number of 
methods, including staff providing the information themselves through 
ESR, risk assessments, and any reasonable adjustments we make to 
meet staff requirements. In most cases, providing information is voluntary. 
Table 6: Proportion of the workforce who have given us disability 
information 

Disability

No

849

Not declared

Unspecified

236

584

Yes

35

The true number of staff with a disability is not known, as a large proportion 
of staff (820 people) who gave us disability information fell into the ‘Not 
declared’ and ‘Unspecified’ categories. However, as only 35 people say 
they have a disability, it does suggest that we should look at whether there 
could be any barriers to our employment practices which, if overcome, could 
provide employment opportunities for people with a disability. We should also 
consider working in partnership with specific employment agencies to offer 
opportunities to people with disabilities.

38   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

7 Age
The age profile of our workforce at 31 March 2016 showed that the 
largest proportion of staff were aged between 31 and 49. 
Table 7: Percentage of workforce by age band

Age Band
<=20 Years

21-25

26-30

31-35

36-40

41-45

46-50

51-55

56-60

61-65

66-70

>=71 Years
Grand Total

Headcount

Headcount %

*

60

152

203

241

243

250

279

198

58

10

*

*

3.52

8.92

11.91

14.14

14.26

14.67

16.37

11.62

3.40

0.59

*

1,704

100.00

The lowest proportion of staff were in the under 25 and over 66 age groups. 
To create employment opportunities for younger and older people we plan to 
offer apprenticeships and work placements.

8 Religion and belief
41% of our workforce voluntarily told us their religion or belief through 
the ESR. 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   39   

9 Sexuality
Providing information about sexuality is voluntary. During 2016-2017, 
637 members of staff chose not to share or specify this information. 
Table 8: Workforce by Sexual Orientation 

Sexual Orientation

Bisexual

Gay

Hetrosexual

Lesbian Not disclosed Unspecified

*

*

1066

*

251

367

The majority of staff (1066 people) reported as being heterosexual. Raising 
awareness of LGBT issues is critical to helping us to provide high- quality 
services for a diverse population. Consider programmes such as the 
Stonewall Diversity Champion Programme which will demonstrate our 
commitment to equality and diversity and may offer us a wider pool of talent 
when recruiting.

10 Gender reassignment
We understand that monitoring the number of transgender employees 
is highly sensitive – if this information is reported and broken down 
further, it could put at risk an individual’s privacy. 
We are committed to making sure our frontline staff (staff who have direct 
contact with the public) are transgender-aware, and some frontline services 
have taken positive action to deliver transgender-awareness training to staff.

11 Marriage and civil partnership
At 31 March 2017, 0.9% of our workforce were in civil partnerships and 
55% were married.  

40   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

12 Recruitment and selection
We are committed to making sure we have a reliable recruitment and 
selection process which deals with applications fairly and consistently 
in line with statutory and good-practice guidance. We encourage staff to 
attend recruitment and selection training, running four sessions a year to help 
them to recruit fairly. 

We also make sure staff are aware of and keep to our recruitment and 
selection policy. We regularly review our recruitment processes to make 
sure they are accessible to everybody. However, we recognise that we could 
do more to be fully inclusive, and have transferred over to Level 1 of the 
Disability Confident scheme, with a commitment to achieving Level 2 during 
2017-2018. 
Table 9: Table to show the percentage of candidates with one or more 
protected characteristics Please note that figures less than 5 are shown 
with an asterix to avoid individuals being identified.

Gender
Not stated

Male

Female
Total

Ethnic Origin
Not stated

WHITE

MIXED

ASIAN

BLACK

OTHER
Total

Applied

Shortlisted

Appointed

66

2870

6107
9043

20

449

1163
1632

0

69

222
291

Applied

Shortlisted

Appointed

168

6980

149

903

681

162
9043

37

1338

71

80

94

12
1632

*

264

8

12

*

*
291

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   41   

Disability
I do not wish to disclose 
whether or not I have  
a disability
No

Yes
Total

Age
Up to 24

25 - 29

30 - 34

35 - 39

40 - 44

45 - 49

50 - 54

55 - 59

60 - 64

65+

Not stated
Total

Applied

Shortlisted

Appointed

201

8351

491
9043

49

1482

101
1632

*

267

19
291

Applied

Shortlisted

Appointed

1856

2032

1359

1128

756

790

635

332

142

12

*

237

275

238

215

167

211

165

94

29

*

*

9043

1632

45

45

52

51

42

23

16

11

*

*

*
291

42   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

Religion
Atheism

Buddhism

Christianity

Hinduism

Islam

Jainism

Judaism

Sikhism

Other
I do not wish to disclose  
my religion/belief

Total

Sexuality
Heterosexual

Lesbian, Gay or Bisexual

I do not wish to describe 
my sexual orientation
Total

Applied

Shortlisted

Appointed

1798

78

4122

184

506

*

12

34

1164
1143

9043

Applied

7894

410

649

9043

318

15

757

22

77

0

*

9

193
238

1632

83

*

123

*

10

*

*

*

31
41

291

Shortlisted

Appointed

1445

64

123

1632

256

15

20

291

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   43   

13 Disciplinary and grievance
We keep to comprehensive disciplinary and grievance policies. These 
policies outline the procedures for dealing with disciplinary or grievance 
matters so that staff are treated in a fair, consistent and timely way. 

We offer training to our managers as part of a leadership programme so 
that they are able to deal with these matters effectively, and our Human 
Resources department give staff and managers help and advice. 

During the reporting period, we carried out five formal disciplinary 
investigations that resulted in three disciplinary cases and heard eight 
formal grievances relating to our staff. Due to the low numbers, information 
regarding protected characteristics cannot be disclosed for confidentiality 
reasons.  

14 Leaving us
Between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017, 195 staff left the organisation.  
Of these, 23 left to relocate, 40 chose to retire, and 132 left for other reasons, 
including the following.
•  Death in service
•  Dismissal 
•  Employee transfer
•  End of fixed-term contract
•  Voluntary Early Release Scheme
•  Compulsory redundancy
•  Health reasons
•  Lack of opportunities
•  Voluntary resignation
•  Promotion
•  Further education or training
•  Work-life balance

44   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

15 Training
The Organisational Development and Learning team support 
registration for a number of learning programmes:
•  Statutory and mandatory training
•  Management and Leadership Development
•  High Cost Learning
•  Apprenticeship schemes
•  Public Health Practitioner Registration Scheme. 

Some training and development is arranged locally and not reported centrally. 
Most registration for training and development is done on paper however 
the team have recently launched classroom training bookings via the Oracle 
Learning Management system – OLM (part of ESR). At present, we do not 
collect anonymous equality data outside of what is voluntarily entered in ESR.

During the year ending March 2018, a learning management system is being 
introduced across the NHS in Wales which will allow us to provide a breakdown 
of information related to protected characteristics (employees will provide this 
information voluntarily, so we will not necessarily get a complete picture). 

As at 31 March 2017, 71.5% of our employees had completed compulsory 
equality, diversity and human rights training, a total of 1247 staff.

16 Procurement
Procurement (buying goods and services) is a specific duty for Wales. 
We have contracts with organisations in the public, private and voluntary 
sectors to provide us with work, goods and services. Some of these contracts 
will have more relevance to equality than others. 

During the coming year, we will be working more closely with our main 
suppliers to make sure they have considered all aspects of equality.

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   45   

17 Gender Pay Gap
Gender Pay Gap reporting became a legal requirement on the 6 April 
2017. In line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017, employers need to publish the following information: 
•  mean gender pay gap in hourly pay;
•  median gender pay gap in hourly pay;
•  proportion of males and females in each pay quartile.

In Public Health Wales, the mean and median hourly rate by Gender is  
as follows:

Gender
Male
Female
Difference
Pay Gap

Mean. Hourly Rate Median Hourly Rate

22.30
17.27
5.03
22.6%

18.01
14.56
3.46
19.2%

The figures highlight a gap between the pay for men and women in the 
organisation. This could be attributable to the high numbers of women in 
some of the lower grades, as well as a high proportion of men in senior 
grades, where staff numbers are not so large. We will review the gender 
profile of our workforce across service areas, identifying whether there are 
any barriers to recruitment and progression and taking necessary steps 
to address this, with targeted interventions to support women balancing 
domestic commitments and a career.
The proportion of men and women in each quartile of our pay structure is 
shown in this table:

Quartile
1
2
3
4

Female

347
323
276
299

Male
62
85
82
165

Female %

Male %

84.8
79.1
77.1
64.4

15.2
20.8
22.9
35.6

46   Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017

18 Conclusion
We have a legal duty to make sure that we employ people and provide 
services in a safe and fair way. We also recognise the importance of 
equality monitoring in assessing how well we are meeting our equality 
duties, and are planning to implement systems to undertake this on a more 
consistent level. 

While we have been able to report on the specific requirements set by  
public-sector equality duties, we still have much to do to improve our 
employment information and business practices in terms of equality,  
diversity and inclusion. 

Work continues to improve the way we carry out impact assessments so that 
they are meaningful, not only through the number we carry out but also their 
quality and how we involve people from all groups. 

We must also consider how the services we provide collect and use equality 
information to better inform their planning and practice.

As an organisation, we must look at increasing the diversity of our workforce 
so that we can draw on different expertise and experiences. We must 
make sure our staff continue to develop and, in doing so, have a broad 
understanding of equality, diversity and human rights which may affect them 
personally and improve their competency on a professional level. 

Finally, we must continue to firmly establish equality as part of our everyday 
business and not something secondary, so that we consider it in everything 
we do. 

Public Health Wales Annual Equality Report 2016-2017   47   

Public Health Wales
2 Capital Quarter
Tyndall Street
Cardiff
CF10 4BZ
Telephone: 029 2022 7744
Fax: 029 2022 6749
Email: general.enquiries@wales.nhs.uk

