THE GENDER PAY GAP 

INTRODUCTION

We want to create a business we can be proud of, which is why all of our people

 (and four-legged friends) should be treated equally and fairly. 

As part of the Government’s commitment to tackling gender inequality, and as a business 
with over 250 employees, we’re publishing calculations every year showing the pay gap 

between our male and female employees. 

OUR FINDINGS

We have found no inconsistency between how we pay men and 

women for the same role but there is a pay gap driven 

by how our teams are structured.

 

White Stuff is 87% female with the majority of roles in our shops.

We are proud that we offer flexibility across our teams and
 provide careers in retail with a variety of roles and hours.

In contrast, the current make up of senior roles at our head office 
shows a higher proportion of men to women in some higher paid 
roles. We know that numbers don’t always tell the whole story, but 
we’re confident that the men and women who work for us are being 

paid equally for doing equivalent jobs, whatever they do.

THE GENDER PAY GAP 

Gender pay gap (mean and median averages)

We have compared the average pay of all the women we employ with the average pay for all the men (for both mean and median 

calculations).Women are paid 30% less than men as a mean average and 10% less than men as a median average.

Pay Quartiles

Total number of employees: 1864

13+

13%
Men

87%
Women

20% 
Men

80% 
Women

13% 
Men

87% 
Women

Top Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

10% 
Men

90% 
Women

9% 
Men

91% 
Women

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

As the above quartiles show we employ a much higher proportion of women at all levels across the company. 

However, we still have a higher number of men in fewer but more highly paid roles.

87
THE GENDER PAY GAP 

Gender bonus pay gap (mean and median averages)

All employees have an equal opportunity to receive bonus pay 

Bonus pay includes commission

We have looked at the bonus paid across our business:

Of all women:

57%

received a bonus.

Of all men:

43%

received a bonus.

We compared women’s average bonus pay with that of men:

The mean average was

27%

higher.

The median average was

Equal

We are a creative and dynamic business, supporting men and women to develop 

to the best of their potential. We pay men and women equally for the same 
role and are committed to ensuring our policies and opportunities are fair and 

equitable for all. 

As we go forward we will continue to focus on women having the same 

opportunities for senior roles as men. We are investing more in leadership training 

to help develop future talent and greater role-modelling for all our teams.

Gender Pay data is produced annually, this data is accurate as of 5 April 2017. To see how the calculations have been produced please visit 

https://www.gov.uk/guidance/gender-pay-gap-reporting-make-your-calculations. 

This information can also be found on the government portal at 

https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk/Viewing/search-results

