GRAHAM
Gender Pay
Report
2017

Delivering
lasting impact

Introduction
At GRAHAM our people make us unique, they are the core of 
our business and the force behind our success. As such, we 
are committed to investing in our talent pool and creating the 
conditions for every individual to excel. 

Accredited to Investors in People’s Platinum standard, our 
open and inclusive culture sets us apart. Furthermore, we are 
an industry leader for Fairness, Inclusion and Respect (FIR). 
This commitment to FIR is reflected in our achievement of the 
industry recognised equality standard - CITB’s Be Fair.  We were 
also the winners of the inaugural CECA ‘Inspiring Change in the 
Workplace’ Award for our work on spearheading FIR within 
our industry. 

Whilst our gender pay figures are in line with the industry, we 
want to build on our proactive, innovative and pioneering 
approach to inclusion.

Why Gender Pay Reporting?
Before we analyse our 2017 gender pay statistics, it is important 
to provide a brief explanation as to what the pay gap means and 
why understanding it is important:

 / What is the gender pay gap? The gender pay gap shows the 

difference in the average hourly pay rate between ALL men and 
women in a workforce.  It’s important to acknowledge that it 
doesn’t compare the salary levels for equivalent roles within a 
business.

 / Why is it important? If an individual organisation or an industry 

as a whole has a particularly high gender pay gap there may be a 
number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations help 
to identify what those issues are.

Gender Pay Report 2017

GRAHAM Gender Pay Statistics

It is worth noting that the gender pay gap is significantly skewed by the salaries of senior, higher-
paid roles within the business. These are the roles that traditionally have been carried out 
predominantly by males.  

Overall the data is representative of trends within the industry. There are numerous influencing 
factors for this including fewer females choosing to forge careers in engineering and construction. 
Also, many females in the industry work in administrative roles, which are inevitably lower paid.

Table 1

GRAHAM - Pay and Bonus Gap

Hourly Pay
Bonus

Mean

37.4%

65.4%

Median

36.8%

25.0%

As a business we are confident that we pay the same salary for equivalent roles regardless 
of gender or any other individual characteristic.  

Table 2

Pay Quartiles

Men 

Women

Lower 
Quartile

63.4%

36.6%

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

-0.6%

1.4%

Lower Middle 
Quartile

Upper Middle 
Quartile

74.2%

25.8%

4.1%

9.9%

90.6%

9.4%

11.9%

8.4%

Upper
Quartile

93.0%

7.0%

20.3%

5.4%

The metrics in Table 2 summarise the gender distribution across GRAHAM when we divide pay rates 
into four equal quartiles. Once again, it’s important to highlight that the pattern is consistent with 
industry norms.  

As fewer females have been entering construction specific roles, at all levels, it makes it difficult to 
recruit and promote in sufficient numbers so that a business can impact the gender pay disparity.  
We recognise this as a key challenge and are fully committed to reconciling the balance through our 
long term action plans.

We recognise that women are underrepresented in many parts of our business, particularly in 
leadership roles. Progress is slower than we would like, but we maintain our belief that we must 
select the best candidate for any position.

Gender Pay Report 2017

However, the statistics also reflect a number of positives:

 / For most staff the gender pay gap is either extremely low or negligible
 / In fact, aside from the Upper Quartile of earners the gap is below the norms for all industries, not just 

the construction industry

 / This encourages us that a long term strategy of education, targeted attraction and focused 

development of professional female employees will bring about a reduction in the overall pay gap.

Table 3

Proportion of Employees who Receive a Bonus

Men

Women

23.3%

8.73%

Table 3 highlights a 14.5% differential between the number of men and women who received a bonus 
for their performance in 2016/17. While we recognise that this gap must be closed, the bonus scheme 
is available primarily to senior management positions and therefore is directly impacted once more 
by the issues we face as an industry.  

How we are addressing gender pay issues
At GRAHAM we are committed to the cultivation of a diverse and inclusive workplace. The gender 
pay statistics and the underlying contributing factors only serve to strengthen our resolve and 
focus our minds on implementing further positive change with Fairness, Inclusion and Respect (FIR) 
at its core. 

Our approach is centred on key connected strands that together create a strong impact.

Focus on leadership and results
Our commitment starts at the top with FIR business targets driven by the advocacy of the 
Executive Team.  We have a diverse FIR team who are responsible for developing and implementing 
operational action plans that make a difference to individuals and the business. Each site/office 
now has a fully trained FIR Champion who supports managers and employees to tackle all forms 
of inequality.

This strategic approach has already made a considerable impact to the business. Since 2015, we 
have achieved the following improvement results:

5% increase 

in applications 
from diverse 

groups

Female employee 

population 

increased by 4%

50% increase in 
female entrants 

to GRAHAM 

Academy, which 
is the foundation 
for future success

An increase in 
our benchmark 
score, Women 
into Science 

and Engineering 

(WISE) 10 step 
plan by 26%

Female 

engagement 
scores have 

increased by 15%

Female turnover 
is 400% less than 

the industry 

average

Building on this success we have ambitious plans for 2018 that we know will support our long-term 
objective of reducing the gender pay gap.

Gender Pay Report 2017

Summary
As a company we’re progressive in our approach and remain 
steadfast in our commitment to openness and transparency. We’ve 
been proactive and have already implemented a range of targeted 
measures to accelerate change and address barriers to female 
participation at all levels.
  
At GRAHAM, we continuously assess the value of our impact. We will 
therefore take a lead role and collaborate with our peers to effect 
lasting change. But we appreciate it’s a journey, not a destination. 

In the end, the results will speak for themselves, and we believe we 
have the key drivers in both personnel, and resources, to achieve 
our objectives of balance, parity and equality for all.

Declaration

I confirm that our data within this report has been calculated 
according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010  
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.
 

……………………………………………
 
Michael Smyth (HR Director)

Gender Pay Report 2017

