2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION
tp bennett is committed to having a diverse workforce.  
We value diversity and will continue to provide equal 
opportunities for all employees. 

As we employ more than 250 people, we will be required 
to report on our gender pay gap figures from next month. 
tp bennett welcomes this initiative and is hopeful that it 
will be a positive step in bridging the gender pay gap in 
the built environment sector.  

This is not an equal pay for equal work issue; men and 
women in the same position performing the same work 
must receive equal pay and tp bennett compensates 
employees based solely on merit and does not 
discriminate against gender or any other trait. 

The Gender Pay Gap is a measure of the difference 
between men and women’s average earnings across  
the practice. 

GENDER PAY GAP FIGURES 
The mean is the average pay or bonus for women 
against the average pay or bonus for men. 

The median compares the ‘middle’ pay or bonus 
for women against the ‘middle’ pay or bonus for men 
when the values are put in a dataset from low to 
high. This is important as it is less affected by outliers 
compared to the mean figure. 

The pay gap is based on a snapshot of data from 5 April 
2017 and looks at the difference between the hourly 
wage for all women versus the hourly wage for all men.

Hourly Pay Gap

Mean

17.9%

Median

12.8%

QUARTILES 
The pay quartiles are used to determine what proportion of men and women we have at each quartile based on their 
hourly rate. It is calculated by ranking all employees’ hourly rate in numerical order and then dividing it into four equal 
groups. 

28.36%

46.27%

50.75%

34.33%

71.64%

53.73%

49.25%

65.67%

Lower Quartile 

Lower-Middle Quartile 

Upper-Middle Quartile 

Upper Quartile 

BONUS GAP 
The regulations also require us to look at the bonus 
difference for a period of 12 months prior to April 2017. 
All employees who have been employed for 6 months 
before the end of the financial year are eligible for a bonus. 

72% of women received a bonus and 79% of men did. 

UNDERSTANDING OUR PAY  
AND BONUS GAP
At tp bennett, we are confident that our gender pay gap 
is based on the fact that we have more men in senior 
positions, and more females in junior positions.

Our gender pay gap is due to a lower level of female 
representation in managerial roles, but also due to the 
fact we have doubled in size in the past 5 years and 
the majority of the job vacancies have been at a non-
managerial level. In addition to this, the majority of staff 
who have filled these roles have been 2/3rds female. 

Bonus Gap

Mean

19.9%

Median

31.3%

WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT IT?
We recognise that closing the gap will take some time 
and will require continual conversations and long term 
strategies.

We are launching a number of initiatives to help 
narrow the gap, including programmes to develop 
junior staff. To try to increase the number of females in 
senior management, we are introducing a mentorship 
programme and have a number of networking events 
planned for the women in our business. To encourage 
working mothers to return from maternity leave, we have 
recently increased our maternity, paternity, and shared 
parental leave policies, and continue to embrace flexible 
working requests for parents. 

I confirm the data that is reported is accurate
G. Doug Smith, Principal Director, tp bennett 

