Autism East Midlands                    

 

the levels of gender equality in our workplace 
the balance of male and female employees at different levels 

Employee Communication: Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not involve publishing 
individual employees data. 
We are required to publish the results on our own website and a government 
website. We will do this within one calendar year of April 5th 2017. 
We can use these results to assess: 
• 
• 
The challenge in our organisation and across Great Britain is to eliminate any gender 
pay gap. 
Gender Pay Reporting requires our organisation to make calculations based on 
employee gender. We have done this by using our existing HR and payroll records. 
You can learn more about Gender Pay Reporting by visiting 
www.acas.org.uk/genderpay 
We found that: 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 First Part 
5 Second Part  The proportion of Females receiving a bonus is 0.7% 
6 
 
6 First Part 
6 Second Part  Females 
  
Whilst men and women employed in the same or similar roles are on the exact same 
payscales, this shows that men are on average paid slightly more than women. This 
is largely because whilst we employ far more women than men, of those we do 
employ, more of the men are in higher paid roles such as teachers or managers. 

The Mean Gender Pay Gap is 4.6% 
The Median Gender Pay Gap is 0.0% 
The Mean Bonus Pay Gap is -18.5% 
The Median Bonus Pay Gap is -18.5% 
The proportion of Males receiving a bonus is 1.1% 

The proportion of Males and Females in each Quartile is: 
Low – Mid.  Mid - Upper 

Males 

Lower 
22.4% 
77.6% 

30.6% 
69.4% 

22.4% 
77.6% 

Upper 
30.6% 
69.4% 

For example in school we employ 91 staff. This includes 78 women and 13 men. 
Teachers make up 14% of the women, with leadership roles making up another 6% 
so 16 women out of 78 are in teaching or leadership roles. There are no male 
teachers not in a leadership role, but 48% of male staff (5 out of 13) in school are in 
leadership roles. This skews earnings for men to be higher than those of women.  
We have recently developed career progression pathways and these can be seen on 
the intranet. We would encourage all staff who wish to, to take up the opportunities 
provided.  
 
 

 
   
 

