GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

AT CLIFFORD CHANCE WE 
ARE COMMITTED TO 
CREATING AN INCLUSIVE 
ENVIRONMENT WHERE EVERY 
EMPLOYEE HAS THE 
OPPORTUNITY TO SUCCEED.

The Gender Pay Gap aims to show the distribution of men and 
women across different roles within an organisation and to highlight 
where there may be concentrations of a particular gender at lower 
or higher pay levels. 

The Gender Pay Gap legislation is not aimed at showing equal pay 
for the same role, this has already been a legal requirement since 
the Equal Pay Act 1970. The firm examines that question regularly 
and we are confident that we pay women and men equally for the 
same role. 

We know that there are clear business advantages of having a 
diverse workforce – it is better for our clients, better for our 
business and better for our people. To achieve this, inclusivity, 
diversity and professional development must be central to our 
strategy and supporting the career development of women at all 
levels is an integral part of this.

The law does not permit us to include our UK based partners in 
the statutory calculations. The legislation only allows inclusion of 
employees; our partners are not employees. However, in order to 
have a complete understanding of the issue and to help our efforts 
to tackle gender imbalance, we feel it is important to show the 
gender pay gap for the whole of our London office including all 
partners and employees. You’ll find this on page 2.

Statutory reporting
Our data shows that based on hourly rates of pay, women’s pay is 20.3% lower (mean) than men. The median gap is 37.2%. As a percentage, 
overall female pay and bonus is lower than male pay and bonus as follows:

Pay and bonus gaps (% less than men)

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus

Hourly Pay gap

Bonus gap

Mean

20.3%

53.2%

Median

37.2%

50.7%

Figures calculated for the bonus gap are based on actual amounts 
paid, rather than on a full-time equivalent, it is important to note 
that we currently employ more of our female colleagues on a 
part-time basis than our male colleagues.

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile band

Upper quartile

Upper middle quartile

Lower middle quartile

51.1%

53.4%

59.4%

48.9%

46.6%

40.6%

Women

Men

44.1%

55.9%

44.9%

55.1%

  receiving a bonus 

 

  not receiving a bonus

Lower quartile

81.5%

18.5%

  Women    

  Men

There are significantly more women than men in the lower middle and lower pay quartiles, which are largely roles in our Business Services teams 
which support our lawyers. 

The structure and make-up of law firms, including ours, greatly impacts the numbers reported. In particular, the vast majority of our secretarial roles 
are performed by women. 

Our analysis suggests that this is the main factor behind the firm’s overall hourly pay gap, and it inevitably impacts our bonus gap, since the level of 
bonuses paid for roles in the lower quartiles is less than those in the top two quartiles.

The proportion of men and women that fall in the top two pay quartiles is almost the same, as is the proportion of men and women receiving a bonus. 

1. Hourly pay is based on the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 for pay. 
2. Bonus information relates to bonuses paid in the 12 months leading up to 5th April 2017. 

Gender Pay Gap report 2017  |  1

Our commitment to transparency
We want to accelerate change and improvement and believe that this 
requires a broader analysis of gender pay, which includes our partners. 
The statutory requirement is for organisations to publish figures for their 
employees and not partners as they are considered owners of the 
business rather than employees, having invested private capital in the firm. 

The difference between the data provided to meet the statutory 
requirements (which is for Clifford Chance London employees only) 
and the adjusted data we have chosen to provide (which is for 
Clifford Chance London employees and London partners) is due to two 
main factors:

• the level of remuneration that partners at Clifford Chance receive and the

proportion of women in our UK Partnership accounting for only 21%

• the high proportion of women in our secretarial roles which makes up

a large part of the lower quartile figure

We hope other law firms will take an equally transparent approach, and 
we expect their figures to show a similar gap when partners are 
included. We believe this will show a more accurate reflection of the 
gender pay gap across our industry.

Overall Pay Gap

Pay Gap

Partner Pay Gap

Pay Gap

Associate Pay Gap

Pay Gap
Business Services Pay Gap

Pay Gap

Mean

66.3%

Mean

27.3%

Mean

3.9%

Mean

27.7%

Median

43.6%

Median

46.3%

Median

5.4%

Median

32.7%

Partner pay is a share of the Firm’s profits, paid irregularly, and it is 
disappointing that there are no statutory guidelines on how to 
include it in the figures. We think the most honest and informative 
way to show the figures is to look at total annual FTE pay for UK 
based partners and employees (including FTE bonus) rather than 
looking only at a single month snapshot (which would not include 
significant amounts of our partner pay).

Our commitment to improvement
We continually review our processes and practices around career 
development, performance review, salary and bonus, and recruitment 
and promotion, to ensure that they are fair and aligned to our values 
and aspirations. 

Gender pay gap reporting has provided us with an opportunity to reflect 
on these and we are actively considering how we can take steps to 
reduce the pay and bonus gaps that this report has identified. We have 
created a Working Group, made up of a number of senior female and 
male colleagues, where the firm’s management and the London 
Women’s Network are working together. The aim of the group is to 
facilitate the career progression of women in the firm.

Although we expect changes in the pay gap to be incremental over a 
number of years given the main factor behind the gaps, we recognise the 
importance of making progress and are committed to do so. 

What we have already done:
Transparency and fairness: 
• We have conducted examination of our partner promotion process
with third party external bias awareness experts and we analyse our
partner promotion process statistically by gender.

• We use a globally consistent approach to appraisals – ensuring

everybody is assessed on a fair basis.

• We have introduced resource managers within the practice areas to

ensure work is allocated fairly and appropriately.
• We publish gender data each year on our website.

Training: 
• We track development course participation by gender and employ an

‘ask and explain’ methodology when participation is not representative.

Role models: 
• We have introduced a Role Models network to encourage members to

share their experiences and to network. This provides a range of specific
contacts and guidance on issues such as wellbeing, balancing family life
and facilitating career progression.

Career Planning:
• We track attrition of associates by gender and seek to understand

the reasons.

Support: 
• We offer enhanced maternity pay, shared parental leave pay and

maternity coaching (for associates) to support individuals on their return
to work.

2  |  Gender Pay Gap report 2017

What we are planning:
We have a number of planned initiatives: 
•  We are reviewing our recruitment approach for business services 

roles, and use of apprenticeship as a potential route 

•  We are introducing gender pay gap reporting to department leaders at 

key decision points in the organisation such as pay and promotion

•  We will increase our focus on reviewing key leadership roles (such as 

client relationship leadership) for gender balance. We have already 
changed the balance of several key committees including our 
London leadership group. Women now make up 50% of the group.

•  The firm has and continues to invest in training for all colleagues 
around unconscious bias. Additional enhanced training is being 
arranged for those in management positions. We have also started to 
embed discussions around gender balance at a practice area and 
business function level. 

•  We have been running courses to support the career progression of 

Associates – both male and female (‘Building Personal Profile’ and 
‘Planning your Career Success’) – and have included a gender 
balance component in induction courses for Senior Associates and 
new partners. Career Development Partners are assigned to every 
Associate – playing a role as a mentor and guide for our lawyers’ 
career development.

•  The firm’s leadership wants to promote greater numbers of women 

and is working towards a target of 30% female partners.

•  We are refreshing and re-branding our London Women’s Network with 

a revised strategy.

Broader Support 
The firm understands the importance of gender equality and inclusion in the workplace, recently signing up to the UN’s ‘Women’s Empowerment 
Principles’: a set of principles offering guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Internally, we have a 
robust set of policies which help support diversity and inclusion. 

Declaration
Our methodology for the statutory gender pay gap reporting has been reviewed by a third party. We confirm that the data 
reported is accurate.

Michael Bates
Regional Managing Partner, 
London

Laura King
Global Head of People and Talent

© Clifford Chance, March 2018

Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under 
number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ.  
Tel: +44 20 7006 1000

We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, 
partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of 
equivalent standing and qualifications. 

J201801050052026

