 

Gender Pay Gap end March 2017  

Summary Data 

 

Overview 
Hydes supports gender equality and is able to state that people in similar roles are definitively paid 
comparable  rates,  with  pay  awards  made  based  on  assessments  of  performance.  The  company 
recognises the importance of positive senior role models and over half of our Head Office team are 
women.   

The following observations regarding the summary statistics, will provide some context to the reader.  

  Of the 628 people employed in the business on the snapshot date, the vast majority were paid 

at statutory rates which span almost all of the 2nd and 3rd quartiles.  

  The most significant variance is reported in the 4th quartile that includes all of the most senior 

roles across the company. All 30 Head office roles were within this group. 

  At Head Office, turnover is low, with most people having at least 5 years’ service. All three 

Head Office appointments made in the last 2 years have been women.   

  This 4th quartile also includes site managers for all 32 public houses, 7 of whom were female.   
  The  company  operates  various  arrangements  through  which  a  significant  number  of 
employees  can  earn  a  bonus.  All  bonus  schemes  are  paid  out  based  on  achievement  of 
measurable targets. The schemes with the highest earning potential are those for the 8 strong 
Operations Team, that includes 2 women, and also the general managers of all 32 sites.  

 

 

1Mean Gender Pay Gap28.2%2Median Gender Pay Gap1.3%3Percentage of males and females in each quartile payrateQuartiles1234Male48.6350.3448.9773.79Female51.3749.6651.0326.214Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap51.5%5Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap93.3%6Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus paymentMales24.0%Females25.3%Recruitment 
Our most senior roles outside of Head Office are managers of pub sites and head chefs in dining sites.  
At the snapshot date all of the head chefs were males as were 25 of the 32 site managers.  The business 
advertises widely when recruiting for these roles,  but there have not been a significant number of 
applications  from  women.  However  in  recent  times  we  have  seen  an  increase  in  external  female 
applicants for deputy positions and indeed more females applying for promotion. Currently 12 of our 
22 most senior deputies, working in the largest sites, are women.  

Clear  criteria  is  applied  to  the  selection  for  all  roles  and  Hydes  requires  all  hiring  managers  to  be 
transparent in their reasons for selection.   

Ways of working 
The Company offers flexible contracts and also guaranteed minimum incomes -  which appeal to an 
extensive range of applicants. We also offer childcare vouchers and an opportunity for 2 rest days a 
week for all roles.   

Opportunities for development 
Hydes has recently expanded its support teams for catering and training and has made a commitment 
to  support  NVQs  throughout  the  business  with  a  focus  on  kitchen  skills.  These  NVQs  are  open  to 
everyone and are provided through a flexible framework which combines work-based training with 
workshops and on site coaching. We believe this is an inclusive approach, making the training available 
to a broad range of employees.  

 

 

 

 

