Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Foreword 

The Economist Group aims to offer insight, analysis and services that are valued by its 
customers.  

Underpinning the Group’s ability to fulfil this objective is a commitment to independence, 
integrity and delivering high quality in everything it does. 

The Economist newspaper has a strong liberal history which also underpins many of the 
values of the wider brand family. The Group supports the cause of diversity and inclusion 
through its commentary, analysis and worldwide Pride and Prejudice events focusing on the 
significance of inclusion in all aspects of business and politics. 

In this report, we concentrate on gender and provide information about employment and 
salary patterns globally and our gender pay gap in the UK (as per the UK Government 
reporting guidelines). From this information it is clear that while we employ similar numbers 

of men and women we need to provide more opportunities for women to progress.  The 
report covers some of the steps we will take to do this. 

We are committed to achieving gender parity across the Group and through annual 

measurement and reporting we will demonstrate improvement. We attract many 
applications for employment both from men and women and need to ensure that 
appointments and career progression achieves our goal particularly at more senior 
management levels.  

Chris Stibbs  
Chief executive  
March 22nd 2018 

1 

1.  Understanding our employment and pay patterns - globally 

 

 

 

Overall, women currently make up 49% of our 
employees globally; this increases to 65% in Asia and 
decreases to 36% in Washington.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

When all roles are ranked in order 
by salary, female representation is 
higher at the lower end while male 

representation is higher at the 
upper end. There is greater 
consistency in the upper-middle 
and lower-middle quartiles which 
account for 50% of all jobs.  

 

 

 

 

 

2 
 

2. The UK gender pay gap  

Turning to the UK specifically, under the UK Government’s Gender Pay Gap regulation, 
companies need to report their gender pay gap if they employ more than 250 staff. The 
Group employs approximately 670 permanent staff in the UK, mainly in London. This 

represents 45% of all employees worldwide. It includes the majority of editorial staff, 
marketing, circulation, media, consultancy, head office functions and support staff. 

The pay gap at the snapshot date of April 

5th 2017 at The Economist Group is 29.5% 
on a median basis (32.5% using the mean).  

The pay gap shows the difference in 
average pay between men and women. It 
does not measure equal pay which is pay 
for doing the same job and is a legal 
requirement. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The fact that there are more women in junior 
roles and more men in senior roles, as illustrated 
in this chart, is a major reason for the pay gap.  

 

 

 

 

3 
 

UK gender pay gap reports include bonus pay.  

The difference in bonus payments, based on 
bonuses paid in the year up to April 5th 2017 at 
The Economist Group, is 7.5% on a median 
basis (26.4% using the mean). As most 
bonuses are a percentage of salary and bonus 

percentages increase with seniority, the 
smaller proportion of women in senior roles is 
the main reason for the difference. 

 

 

 

 

 

3. Closing the gender gap - globally 

The challenge in achieving gender parity is at either end of the organisation. In lower paid 
roles, turnover is higher and includes career entry points in most businesses as well as 
essential support roles. With careful recruitment and selection, we should be able to address 

the imbalance. At the upper end, longer tenure and lower turnover creates fewer 
opportunities for career progression generally and therefore gender parity will take longer to 
achieve. However, we are committed to multiple male and female candidates being 
considered for senior roles and to ensuring better male and female balance in management 
teams. Some teams have achieved this and others have a way to go. 

While the key challenge is of equal representation of women in senior roles and management 
teams, this will not be achieved by recruitment and career progression alone. We will also re-

examine policies and practices, paternity and maternity support, management development, 
and deploy widely our diversity and inclusion training including understanding unconscious 
biases. 

 

 

 

 

4 
 

4. Inclusion

This report has concentrated on gender, however, a review of our policies, practices, 
development and training will cover broader diversity and inclusion. We are committed to an 
inclusive environment for all our employees regardless of ethnic origin, national origin, 
gender, race, colour, religious beliefs, disability, sexual orientation or age. 

5. UK Statutory disclosures

The table below shows the UK median and mean gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay 
of those employed on the snapshot date of April 5th 2017. 

Gender pay gap 

Median 
29.5% 

Mean 
32.5% 

The following tables show the UK median and mean gender bonus gap based on bonuses 
paid in the year to 5 April 2017 and the proportion of men and women who received a bonus. 

Gender bonus gap 

Median 

7.5% 

Mean 
26.4% 

% of men receiving bonus pay 
% of women receiving bonus pay 

34.3% 
22.8% 

The final table shows the proportion of men and women in each pay quartile, based on 
hourly pay rates. 

Upper 
Upper middle 
Lower middle 
Lower 

% men 

% women 

76 
52 
42 
38 

24 
48 
58 
62 

I confirm the data reported is accurate. 

Catherine Hearn 
Group Human Resources Director 
March 22nd 2018 

5 

