EMIS Group – gender pay gap disclosure  

 

In accordance with the reporting requirements set out in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations we have published our gender pay gap data 
for Egton Medical Information Systems Ltd and Medical Imaging UK Ltd.  We have also taken this opportunity to voluntarily publish our consolidated gender pay gap data 
for EMIS Group. 
The gender pay gap is the difference in the average pay and bonuses of all male and female employees across an organisation.  Whilst we are confident that we have 
equal pay for work of equal value, we do have a gender pay gap as illustrated by our published gender pay data below.  This is primarily due to there being a lower 
proportion of female employees in senior positions compared to male employees, but is also impacted by wider issues.  In the UK, the number of women currently 
graduating in core science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects is 24%.  This figure falls to 15% for computer science graduatesa.  We are therefore 
currently operating with an imbalance in our gender talent pool which has a direct impact on the gender balance of our workforce.     
 

  Egton Medical Information Systems Ltd 

  Medical Imaging UK Ltd 

  EMIS Group 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the mean (average) and the median (mid-point) pay and bonuses paid to all male and female employees. 
The proportion of male and female employees who were paid bonuses. 
The proportion of male and female employees in four quartile hourly rate pay bands ranked from lowest hourly rate to the highest hourly rate. 

 
 
 
                                                            
a Wise Campaign for gender balance in science, technology & engineering – Core STEM Graduates 2017 

 

 

 

 

  Gender pay gap 
  Gender bonus gap 

 

 

 

 

 

Male: 25.4% 

 

 

 

Pay quartile 

  Upper 
  Upper middle 

Lower middle 
Lower 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean 
11.4% 
1.5% 

Median 
2.4% 
19.4% 

 

 

Female: 34.4% 
 

 

 

 

 

Male 
69.7% 
65.3% 

68.6% 
60.0% 

Female 
30.3% 
34.7% 

31.4% 
40.0% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean and 
median pay 
and bonus1 

 

Proportion of 
employees 
receiving a 
bonus2 

 

Proportion of 
employees in 
each pay 
quartile3 

 

1. 
2. 
3. 
 

 

 

 

 

  Gender pay gap 
  Gender bonus gap 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean 
25.8% 

0% 

Median 
12.4% 

0% 

 

 
  Gender pay gap 
  Gender bonus gap 

Mean 
17.6% 
7.6% 

Median 
14.1% 
- 31.2% 

Male: 0% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Female: 0% 
 

 

 

 

Male: 27.1% 

Female: 25.3% 
 
 

Pay quartile 

  Upper 
  Upper middle 

Lower middle 
Lower 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Male 
40.0% 
23.3% 

11.7% 
21.7% 

Female 
60.0% 
76.7% 

88.3% 
78.3% 

  Pay quartile 
  Upper 
  Upper middle 

 
 

Lower middle 
Lower 

Male 
71.0% 
63.9% 

59.9% 
47.6% 

Female 
29.0% 
36.1% 

40.1% 
52.4% 

Understanding the gender pay gap data 
The mean gender pay gap across the Group is 17.6% which is broadly in line with the current UK average of 17.4%.  The median gender pay gap across our Group is 
14.1% which compares favourably to the current UK median of 18.4%.b  
The mean gender pay gap is higher than the median gender pay gap across the two reportable entities and the Group as a whole.  This is a consequence of a larger 
number of male employees occupying the most senior positions compared to female employees resulting in a higher mean average male hourly rate of pay.  The median 
pay gap is lower because we have similar pay practices at the mid-point of our male and female populations.  
The mean and median gender pay gap is higher across Medical Imaging UK Ltd compared to Egton Medical Information Systems Ltd.  This is primarily due to a larger 
proportion of the male workforce occupying senior positions compared to the female workforce across Medical Imaging UK Ltd in comparison to Egton Medical Information 
Systems Ltd. 
The median gender bonus gap across the Group is -31.2% meaning that the mid-point bonus paid to female employees is higher compared to male employees.  The mean 
gender bonus gap across the Group is 7.6% meaning that the average bonus paid to male employees is higher compared to female employees.  This difference is due to 
a larger number of male employees occupying the most senior positions, where the highest bonuses were received, compared to female employees.   

Our commitment to equality and diversity 
Equality and diversity is very important to us and we recognise the benefits that a diverse workforce brings to the business.  As we continue to foster a culture of equal 
opportunities, we will monitor our gender pay gap and strive to improve the gender balance within senior positions.  In this regard, we are going to focus primarily on 4 
areas this year: 
 

1.  Setting up within EMIS Group a women’s network to discuss ideas about how to address issues which lead to the Gender Pay Gap and to present proposals for 

change to the Executive team. 

2.  An improvement in the approach to Maternity provisions which will take us above the statutory minimum and will be focussed towards supporting return to work. 
3.  A relaunch of our Flexible Working policy with an emphasis on more transparency around decisions made to support flexible arrangements, such as term time 

working.  

4.  Support, through coaching, for women building careers in EMIS Group after time away from the workplace. 

 
I confirm that our gender pay gap data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Regulations. 
Andy Thorburn 
Chief Executive Officer 

                                                            
b ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings: 2017 provisional and 2016 revised results 

