2017 Gender Pay Results - Cromwell

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Introduction
For the first time, The Gender Pay Reporting legislation requires 
employers with 250 or more team members in the UK to publish 
statutory calculations every year. These calculations show the pay gap 
between male and female team members at a snapshot date in April 
each year. 

Gender Pay is different to Equal Pay as it does not compare people in 
the same or broadly similar roles but looks at the differences in average 
pay (both mean and median) between men and women - no matter 
what their role is.  In the UK the Office of National Statistics reports a 
gender pay gap of 18.1% for all businesses.

About Cromwell
Cromwell is a leading distributor of industrial products, specialising in 
MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Operations) and industrial goods. We 
help UK businesses large and small keep their operations running and 
people safe. We have a central Head Office and Distribution Centre in 
Leicester and a number of branches and centres throughout the UK.  
Cromwell has been in business over 40 years and was privately owned 
by its founder until 2015, when it was acquired Grainger, a Fortune 500 
company based in the U.S.

Our Pay Gap
Cromwell has a gender pay gap of 11.9%, well below the national 

average (1) and below the industry average (2). In the main this gap has 
arisen because of the gender mix in our quartiles. We recognise that 
while we apply rewards and recognition consistently across all team 
members, most of our senior leaders are male.

Cromwell has typically seen a higher ratio of male to female within its 
workforce (currently 72:28%). This has occurred as a number of our 
divisions are focused on servicing industrial engineering and 
manufacturing markets or within logistics and warehouse operations all 
of which have traditionally had a strong male presence.

We recognise that there is further work to improve diversity within 
Cromwell and our diversity journey has already begun.  In the last 18 
months alone Cromwell has placed more females into senior key 
positions than previously.  We are continuing to review our reward 
practices and where possible will offer flexible work practises and 
family friendly benefits which enable team members to fit work around 
family responsibilities.  

We also intend to raise awareness for people leaders and team 
members in becoming more inclusive and promoting the benefits of 
diversity.  Its our aim to continue making Cromwell a great place to 
work and in doing so ensure that both women and men have equal 
access to the same recognition, reward and career progression 
opportunities.

Steve Brocklebank

Group Director - Human 

Resources

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Our Results

Our Pay Gap Results

Mean pay gap – 11.9%
Median pay gap – 7.4%

National average pay gap - 18.1%

Our Bonus Gap Results

Mean bonus gap – 32.2%
Median bonus gap – 19.6%

Proportion of men and women who receive 
a bonus

84% of Women receive a bonus 
92% of Men receive a bonus 

Our Results

• Cromwell has a smaller pay gap than the national average 
of 18.1% (1) and that of the Wholesale and Retail Trade gap 
of 19% (2).  

• Women make up 28% of Cromwell’s workforce and have the 

highest presence in the lower middle pay quartile in Sales, 
Operational and Administration roles. 

• The upper quartile has the lowest percentage of women in 

comparison to the rest of the pay quartiles. The Senior 
Leadership Team is 100% male and of the 50 highest paid 
roles within the business, only 16% of these are women. 

• Gender pay is impacted by flexible arrangements with 68% 
of our part time population being female and a higher take 
up by females of salary sacrifice schemes such as Holiday 
Buy and Childcare Vouchers.

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report

Making A Difference

We are already making progress on our inclusion and diversity journey  so we attract, 
develop and retain male and female colleagues with multiple perspectives, age, ethnicity 
and race at all levels of the organization.  For example our analysis shows that of the 10 
highest paid women within the business 70% have joined in the past 18 months.

To help us on this journey we will continue to progress in the following ways:









Continually review and assess our reward offering which includes flexibility for time off 
through holiday buy and carry over

Develop our recruitment processes to provide a more balanced and diverse list of 
candidates 

As of April 2018 we will adopt National Living Wage for all team members regardless of 
age (excluding apprentices)

Introduce a series of educational programmes to help our people leaders and team 
members become more inclusive and harness diversity

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report
Appendix

Calculation Definitions 





Mean - A mean average involves adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result by how many numbers were in the list.

Median - A median average involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order. If there is an odd number of results, the 
median average is the middle number. If there is an even number of results, the median will be the mean of the two central 
numbers.

References
1. Office of National Statistics - https://visual.ons.gov.uk/the-gender-pay-gap-what-is-it-and-what-affects-it/ 

2. PWC Women in Work Index, Closing the Pay Gap, February 2017, Page 4. Wholesale and retail trade gap – 19%

These figures do not include Merlin, which is a subsidiary of Cromwell.

