GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT APRIL 2017

INTRODUCTION

From 6 April 2017 employers in the UK with more than 250 staff 
are legally required to publish the difference between the pay 
and bonuses awarded to male and female staff – this is called the 
gender pay gap. 

The gender pay gap gives a snapshot of the balance of men and 
women within an organisation. It measures the difference between 
the average earnings of all men and women, irrespective of their 
role, and shows the difference between the average (mean or 
median) earnings of both.

This is part of a national focus by the government to ensure women 
and men employees have the same career progression and earning 
potential. 

The data used for this report is for the pay date of 21st April 
2017 (covering the pay period 19th March 2017 - 15th April 2017 
inclusive) and encompasses Newlife employees on full pay (those 
with a contract of employment), workers and agency workers 
(those with a contract to do work or provide services) and some 
self-employed people (where they perform the work themselves). 

INTRODUCTION

In this document we set out our gender pay and bonus gap in more 
detail to highlight the number of male and female colleagues in 
each quartile of our pay ranges at the snap shot date. 

At the snapshot date of 6th April 2017, at Newlife

29.9%

of colleagues
were male

71.1%

of colleagues
were female

UK average
gender pay gap 
in 2016
18.1%

our average
gender pay gap is 

6.3%

SUMMARY
Newlife is therefore WELL BELOW the UK average figure.  

HOURLY RATES OF PAY

By law we are required to publish data regarding our mean and 
median gender pay gap information. 

MEAN 

This is the average pay awarded to 
male and female employees and is 
calculated by adding up all salaries and 
dividing the figure by the number of 
employees. 

our mean
gender pay gap is 

6.3%

MEDIAN

This is the middle value of our pay 
and is calculated by ordering salaries 
of male and female employees from 
highest to lowest and identifying the 
middle number.

our median

gender pay gap is 0%

PAY BANDS

Below shows the proportion of men and women in each of the four 
‘quartile’ pay bands.  This is calculated by dividing the workforce 
into four equal parts based on hourly rates of pay.  We have divided 
the parts into lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper. 

Lower

Male: 41.8%
Female: 58.2%

Lower Middle
Male: 29.1%
Female: 70.9%

Upper Middle
Male: 29.1%
Female: 70.9%

Upper

Male: 33.3%
Female: 66.6%

SUMMARY
Our figures show a HIGHER PROPORTION of women than men in 
each of the four pay ranges and there are significantly more females 
in the Lower Middle, Upper Middle and Upper pay bands.  

BONUSES

Newlife does not operate a bonus scheme, unless exceptional 
circumstances arise.  It does however, operate an Employee 
Recognition Scheme which acknowledges exceptional service or 
commitment of selected employees who receive £25 worth of gift 
vouchers. For the purposes of Gender Pay Gap reporting, this is to 
be reported against under bonuses.  

For the period 6th April 2016 to 5th April 2017 we can report:

our median

gender pay gap is 0%

our mean

gender pay gap is 0%

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment

Male: 3.8%
(4/105)

Female: 5.3%
(13/247)

There is only a 1.5% difference in the proportion of males and 
females receiving a bonus payment from the Staff Recognition 
Scheme, with females receiving the higher proportion. Recipients 
are nominated across the organisation based on demonstrating 
activities above and beyond what they’re generally employed to do. 
Newlife management has little influence on who is nominated. We 
see females do receive more bonuses, this is to be expected given 
we have more females than males employed. 

MORE ABOUT NEWLIFE 
AND OUR GENDER PAY GAP

Newlife’s approach to valuing equality and diversity is underpinned 
across all our charitable, retail and commercial operations.  

We believe that everyone deserves equal opportunities regardless 
of background, gender or circumstances.  As a responsible employer 
we aim to treat everyone fairly and work with them and provide 
opportunities to help them achieve their potential and enjoy the 
journey on the way.  As such Newlife is proud to be acknowledged as 
a ‘Disability Confident Employer’.

Newlife has a high number of part time employees working across 
our retail stores and warehouses.  In both work settings, shift based 
work and job sharing is particularly prevalent. It is therefore attractive 
to those with caring responsibilities. Probaly as a result we have a 
higher proportion of female to male employees in these areas.  

It is more difficult to accommodate part time employment 
opportunities and job shares within the office functions of Newlife, 
because of the need for continuity of function and purpose.  We 
have a Flexible Working request procedure, which is accessible to 
all existing staff who have been employed for 26 weeks, and we will 
consider job sharing when recruiting.  

As the figures in this report demonstrate women play a key role in 
Newlife and its ongoing success, making up 71.1% of the workforce.  
A significant number of women hold key management roles across 
the organisation, including the Chief Executive Officer, Heads of 
Finance, HR, Corporate Services, Governance and PR.  There are 
plenty of opportunities for male employees to achieve in these sort of 
Management roles too, as we see with Senior Retail, Care Services and 
Charity Operations, to name just a few. 

 “It’s extremely rewarding to see that not only is Newlife’s 

gender pay gap well below the national average, but 
our female and male employees are represented at 

every level of the organisation.   

We are commited to monitoring and reviewing the pay 
differences and employment progression opportunities 

for both male and female employees at Newlife.”

Mrs Sheila Brown, OBE, Chief Executive

Newlife the Charity for Disabled Children

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Full-pay relevant employee: Someone who is employed on the 
snapshot date (6th April 2017) and is being paid their usual full 
pay during that pay period. Note - If employees are being paid less 
than their usual rate, or nil, as a result of being on leave during that 
period, then they are not a ‘full pay relevant employee’. Full pay 
relevant employees are part of the definition of relevant employees 
(see below). Only full-pay relevant employees are included in the 
calculation of mean and median gender pay gap.

Relevant employee: Those employed by the Newlife on 5th April 
of a given year i.e. the snapshot date. This term includes full-pay 
relevant employees and also other employees employed on 5th 
April but on less than full pay because of leave. Relevant employees 
are included in the bonus pay gap calculations.

Weekly working hours: This does not include paid or unpaid 
overtime. It does include allowances and any premiums paid 
such as step up rates or staff representative payments. For any 
employees who use child care vouchers the figure for the gross 
amount of pay after salary sacrifice is used. 

Mean average: This involves adding up all of the numbers and 
dividing the result by how many numbers were in the list. 

A median average: This involves listing all of the numbers in 
numerical order. If there is an odd number of results, the median 
average is the middle number. If there is an even number of results, 
the median will be the mean of the two central numbers.

Newlife the Charity for Disabled Children - Registered Charity Number:1170125 in England & Wales

