 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Writtle University College 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Introduction  
Writtle  University  College  (WUC)  is  committed  to  addressing  barriers  to  equality  and  providing  all 
employees with equality of opportunity within a culture which is inclusive, collegial, actively respects and 
values differences and combats prejudice and discrimination.  
 
We  are  required  by  law  under  the  Equality  Act 2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations 2017  (SI 
2017/172),  as a public  sector employer  to  report under the  Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties  and Public 
Authorities)  Regulations  2017  (SI  2017/353)  (the  public-sector  Regulations),  to  publish  an  annual  gender 
pay gap report.  This is its report for the snapshot date of 31 March 2017; the prescribed information will 
be published on an annual basis thereafter. 
 
We welcome the opportunity to report upon our gender pay gap, it is the first time that we have reported 
specifically on gender pay; we have, however,  been conducting Equal Pay Audits since 2011. 
 
It is important to understand the difference between equal pay and a gender pay gap: 
 

  equal pay refers to the differences in pay between men and women who carry out like for like 

work,  work that is broadly similar, work related as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme, or 
work found to be of equal value in terms of effort, skill or decision making. 
 

  a gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay between men and women,  regardless of 

grade. 

 
For the purposes of calculating the gender pay gap, WUC identified which of our employees are "relevant 
employees" and which are "full-pay relevant employees”, for the purposes of this report the calculation 
includes our workforce as a whole; full and part-time employees including those on Maternity Leave, Sick 
Leave and Special Leave, together with Hourly Paid Lecturers and Casual Workers.  Calculations are based 
on ordinary pay only and do not include any overtime.   
 
This report will provide detail of six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in WUC; it will not involve publishing individual employees’ data. 
 
This information is published on our own website: www.writtle.ac.uk and the government website: 
https://gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk  
 
 

 

 

 
 
Our Data 
 
Mean gender pay gap = 14.1%. 
Median gender pay gap = 16.2%. 

 

Pay quartiles by Gender  

Band 

Males 

Females 

Description 

Lower 
Quartile 

26.2% 

73.8% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile 

Lower Middle 
Quartile 

29.6% 

70.4% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

Upper Middle 
Quartile 

27.8% 

72.2% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper 
quartile 

Upper 
Quartile 

42.6% 

57.4% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the upper quartile 

 
The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Proportion of Employee receiving a bonus 
WUC does also not pay any such bonuses therefore there is no data in this regard. 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Contextual Information 

 

WUC is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees, 
regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees 
equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out 
above). As such, it: 

  evaluates all job descriptions of all new proposed roles and replacement roles using the 

HERA (Higher Education Role Analysis) system part of the JNCHES Pay Framework 
Agreement (51 point pay spine) to ensure a fair application of pay, which determines the 
level of Grade on WUC Single Pay Spine (SPS) 
remunerates all roles on the University College SPS with the exception of Senior Leadership 
Team (SLT) whose pay is either a spot salary on the SPS or determined by market pay 
reports and agreed by the Personnel and Remuneration Committee    

 

  ensures individuals who have responsibility for determining pay levels (Grades and points) 
receive appropriate training on the HERA system by an accredited HERA individual external 
to the organisation  

 
A factor that partially contextualises the findings is the relatively high average length of service 
amongst the University College’s workforce. Whilst longevity of service has benefits, it can be a 
barrier to changing the gender balance in particular occupational groupings. 
 
WUC is confident its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for 
the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract.  This may also be 
affected by the gender profile of Writtle Staff; the female proportion is 68.4% (as at 31 March 
2017).   
 
According to the UCU report (https://www.ucu.org.uk/media/8620/The-gender-pay-gap-in-
higher-education-201516---full-report-May-17/pdf/ucu_2015-
16genderpaygapreort_full_may17.pdf) “the gender balance (or imbalance) of staff at Higher 
Education institutions in the UK is one of the primary drivers of the sectors continuing gender pay 
gap.” 

 

 

 
Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men to 
be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation.  However at WUC, due to the gender 
profile the majority of senior post holders are women.  In addition, across the whole economy as a 
whole, men are more likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates of pay 
than other roles at similar levels of seniority. In general women are also more likely than men to 
have had breaks from work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up 
children. They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available 
across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. 
 
This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of WUC’s workforce, 
where the majority of front-line professional services staff are women, while the majority of line 
manager and senior manager roles are held by men. 
 
This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows WUC’s 
workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with Band A including 
the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% 
(the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal 
ratio of men to women in each Band. However, within WUC, 73.8% of the employees in B and A 
are women and 26.2% men. The percentage of male employees varies throughout the remaining 
Bands, from 29.6% in Band B to 42.6% in Band D. 
 
The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say 
that WUC’s gap compares favourably with that of other organisations, including those within our 
industry. 
 
The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%.  At 14.1%, 
WUC's mean gender pay gap is, lower than that for the whole economy. 
 
The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 ONS ASHE 
figures) is 18.4%. At 16.2%, WUC's median gender pay gap is, therefore, lower than that for the 
whole economy. 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Our Action Plan 
 
We recognise that sustained and purposeful change will take time.  
 
WUC will continue to focus attention on: 
 

  Conducting Equal Pay Audits every two years, reporting the findings to the Senior 

Leadership Team and Governors. 

  Reviewing and updating related HR policies, ensuring those specific to reward promote 

increasing transparency and pay decisions that are demonstrably equitable 

  Monitoring starting salaries to ensure fairness and consistency, challenging inappropriate 

decisions as necessary 

  Taking steps to ensure that our recruitment processes are without bias. Ensuring all 

recruiting managers complete recruitment and selection training 
  Monitoring support for professional and personal development  

 
None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, WUC is committed to reporting on an 
annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 
 
As an organisation we are committed to our role in achieving real gender equality. 
 
Janine Rusbridge (Director of Human Resources) 
Date: 26 March 2018 

 

