G.B. Terminals Ltd 

G.B. Terminals Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

29th March 2018 

 
 

 

Registered Office: Meridian House,  
Alexandra Dock North, Grimsby. 
NE Lincolnshire, DN31 3UA 
Tel:   01472 246500 
Fax:   01472 348720 
Email: solutions@gbagroup.com 
www.gbagroup.com 

 

 
The table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the 
snapshot date (i.e. 5th April 2017).  It also captures the mean and median difference between bonuses paid to 
men and women at G.B. Terminals Ltd in the year ended 5th April 2017. 
 
The data shown above highlights the parity that exists between men and women employed by G.B. Terminals in 
respect  of  those  in  receipt of  a  bonus  payment  during  the  year  ended 5th  April  2017, with  a  minor statistical 
weighting  in  favour  of  women  over  men.  Bonuses  are  allocated  by  way  of  assessment  of  an  individuals’ 
performance over a 12 month period. 
 
The  company  believes  that  men  and  women  are  paid  equal  amounts  for  doing  equivalent  jobs  across  our 
business.  
 
At  the  outset,  G.B.  Terminals  is  committed  to  building  a  diverse  and  committed  workplace  that  gives  equal 
opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their gender. The Automotive Port & Logistics sector is traditionally 
somewhat  male-dominated  and,  as  at  the  calculation  date,  the  workforce  gender  breakdown  was  82%  male 
employees with 18% of the workforce comprising female staff members.  
 
We are proud at G.B. Terminals of our long-standing commitment and to attaining meaningful gender equality; 
the results of which are apparent by way of the minor variance of respective pay presented in this statement. 
Likewise, we continue to actively promote the introduction of female employment into the sector. 
 
I confirm that the data reported is accurate. 
 
 
 
 
Cale Judah 
Commercial Director, GB Terminals Ltd 
 
 
 

AUTOMOTIVE          |          SHIPPING          |          PORTS & TERMINALS          |          TECHNOLOGY 

GBA Group of Companies ® consists of: 
GBA Group Ltd | GBA (Holdings) Ltd | G.B. Agencies Ltd | G.B. Terminals Ltd | G.B. Motorships Ltd | G.B. Shipping & Forwarding Ltd | 
G.B. Terminals (Southern) Ltd | G.B. Terminals (Western) Ltd | G.B. Terminals (Northern) Ltd | Euro Terminal Ltd | GBA Transport Ltd | 
GBA Technologies Ltd | GBA Technical Services Ltd 
Registered in England Number: 02623171 

 

