BURBERRY GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2016/17

 FOREWORD 

 
Marco Gobbetti
CEO Burberry plc

At Burberry, we recognise the importance of attracting and 
retaining a diverse employee talent pool and fostering an 
inclusive culture. With more than 10,000 employees in  
thirty-five countries, we continue to benefit from the different 
perspectives, experiences and ideas our people offer, bound 
together by our core values. We believe this is key to ensuring 
Burberry’s long-term success.

We are proud of our strong track record of attracting female 
talent. Women make up 40% of our Executive Team and 40%  
of our Board of Directors, which includes one female Executive 
Director. This was recognised in the 2017 ‘Hampton-Alexander 
Review FTSE 100 for Women on Boards and in Leadership’ 
where Burberry was ranked in the top five best performers.

While we continue to take steps to ensure employees at all 
levels are able to fulfil their potential and further their careers 
at Burberry, and are recognised for their contribution, we know 
we can do more. This report shows that we have a gender pay 
gap in the UK. The gap is influenced by the fact that we have 
fewer women in senior positions. With women making up  
70% of our 3,500 employees in the UK, we are committed to 
narrowing this gap as we work to develop more women leaders 
to drive the growth and success of our business. 

MARCO GOBBETTI,  
CEO, Burberry plc

DEFINITIONS
The Gender Pay Gap looks at average pay differences between 
men and women across all roles in a company. It is distinct 
from equal pay, which considers pay differences between men 
and women who carry out the same or similar jobs.

The median is the middle number or the mid-point in a group 
of people, in this context, employees working for Burberry in 
the UK. If all the men and all the women working there were 
lined up, the median is the difference in the hourly pay 
between the “middle” woman and the “middle” man. 

The mean is the difference between the average hourly pay  
of men and women working across our UK business. 

The overall Gender Pay Gap is calculated using a snapshot of 
base pay on 5th April 2017 and any variable pay received in the 
twelve months prior to this date.

The Bonus Gap is based on variable pay received in the  
twelve months prior to 5th April 2017. This includes any bonus, 
commissions, incentives and proceeds from shares that were 
exercised during that period. ‘Exercising’ shares means that 
someone has chosen to sell shares that have already been 
awarded to them at a time that suits them. This includes 
Sharesave and Freeshares as well as shares acquired under 
other company plans.

In this report, we show the Gender Representation across our 
UK business, splitting it into 4 equal parts called quartiles. The 
lower quartile consists of the people who received the lowest 
pay in Burberry; the upper quartile consists of those who were 
paid the most, including the Executive Team. The Mid-lower 
and Mid-upper fall between these.

UNDERSTANDING OUR NUMBERS
Our overall pay gap as seen here in figure 1, is influenced by 
the fact that we have more men than women currently 
occupying senior roles immediately below the Executive Team.

This factor is more pronounced in some areas of our business 
than others. For example, in manufacturing and distribution, 
the majority of senior roles (including those that report 
directly to the Executive Team) are held by men, reflecting  
the demographics of the broader manufacturing industry. 

Variable pay also influenced our overall pay gap and is 
represented here in figure 2.

Everyone at Burberry is eligible to earn some element of 
variable pay. Variable pay is based on a mix of personal and 
company performance, depending on a person’s role, and  
can include sales commission, incentives or discretionary 
bonuses. 

The proportion of men and women who received variable pay 
or who exercised share options in the twelve months prior to 
5th April 2017 was 36% and 33% respectively.  

During this time, Burberry’s overall financial performance was 
below the threshold required for the company to pay bonuses 
to employees under our discretionary Annual Bonus Plan.

The majority of employees who received variable pay that  
year were sales associates working in our stores, who  
benefited from sales incentives and collected commission.  

EMPLOYEE POPULATION 
BY PAY QUARTILE 
The charts in figure 3 set out our Gender Representation 
across our UK business, showing the proportion of women  
and men in each quartile, as well as the most common  
role in each quartile. 

Sales Associate is the most common role across the whole  
of our UK population. A sales associate’s pay will vary based  
on the location of the store they work in and the payments 
they receive from sales incentives and commissions.

OUR NUMBERS

FIGURE 1 
PAY GAP
Mean pay gap

25.9%

 
Median pay gap

7.8%

W

M

W

M

Our mean Pay Gap of 
25.9% in favour of male 
employees compares  
to a UK national  
average of 17.4%. 

FIGURE 2 
BONUS GAP
Mean bonus pay gap

34.4%

Our median Pay Gap of 
7.8% in favour of male 
employees compares  
to the UK national 
average of 18.4%. 

Median bonus pay gap

15.9%

W

M

W

M

FIGURE 3
EMPLOYEE POPULATION BY PAY QUARTILE

UPPER

MID-UPPER

MID-LOWER

LOWER

W                     
58.2%

68.5%

68.2%

72.5%

M
41.8%

31.5%

31.8%

27.5% 

MOST COMMON ROLES
 
Upper: Store Manager
Mid-Upper and Mid-Lower: Sales Associate
Lower: Production Operative

CLOSING THE GAP
While we have increased the gender diversity of our Board and 
our Executive Team in recent years, we recognise that there is 
more to do to develop a pipeline of female leaders, particularly 
in our most senior roles. To support this and narrow our gender 
pay gap, we will take the following steps:

We are reviewing our leadership 
development programmes to ensure 
they support all our people and 
reinforce diversity and inclusion 
across the business. 

We will continue to provide our  
line managers with guidance on 
conducting reward conversations 
and making decisions that are  
free from unconscious gender bias,  
80% of our line managers have 
already taken part in a coaching 
programme to support their 
professional development.

We will continually review our 
approach to reward, which includes 
our variable pay plans. We will 
identify and address any design 
features that may have impacted 
our gender pay gap and steps we 
can take to remedy them. Pay and 
bonus proposals will continue to be 
reviewed by senior leaders as part 
of the Annual Review process. 

This report is dated 15th March 2018

