 

 
 

1.  Introduction 

Gender Pay Reporting, May 2018 

 
 

Gender  pay  reporting  legislation  requires  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  to 
publish  statutory  calculations  every  year  showing  the  difference  in  average  pay   
between their male and female employees to highlight any gender pay gap. 

 
2.  Our results 

The overall hourly rates 

2.1. 
Within CSET overall: 

  The women’s hourly rate is 17.48% lower the men’s hourly rate (mean). 
  The women’s hourly rate is 36.8% lower than the men’s hourly rate (median). 

 
2.2. 

The gender split within the four quartiles, based on individual employees’ pay  
 

Quartiles 
Lower quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Top quartile 

Percentages of women 
82.6% 
80.1% 
70.2% 
58% 

Percentages of men 
17.4% 
19.9% 
29.8% 
42% 

 

 

2.3.  Bonuses 
  We do not pay bonuses. 

 
3.  Our analysis 
Female employees are rewarded using the same pay bands as male employees regardless 
of  gender.    Decisions  about  pay  progression  for  teachers  are  undertaken  by  a  Pay 
Committee of the Board of Directors to ensure consistency of approach. 
 
We are not unlike a number of other schools/academies where the staff profile in particular 
within the lower quartile includes a significantly higher percentage of female employees.   
 
Research undertaken by the Equality and Human Rights’ Commission (Research Report 15: 
Work  and  care:  a  study  of  modern  parents*),  which  included  a  survey  of  4,500  parents  of 
children aged under 16, states that over three quarters of mothers said that in day-to-day life 
they have the primary responsibility for childcare in the home. Also very few men work part-
time and many work long hours- sixty percent of working fathers put in more than 40 hours a 
week, compared to just a third of working mothers. In addition, flexible working was seen as 
an  important  aspect  in  getting  the  balance  right  between  work  and  childcare  was  highly 
valued.  
 
Given the findings of the Equality and Human Rights’ Research Commission, the term-time 
only  and  part-time  working  roles  available  to  support  staff  in  primary  and  secondary 
education may account for the higher percentages of females to males in the lower quartiles 
as  culturally  the  research  highlighted  that  three  quarters  of  mothers  had  primary 
responsibility for childcare in the home. 
 
 
 

4.  Our commitments 
We are committed to the principles of equality at work and we recruit the best individual for 
the role, irrespective of gender.  
 
We  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  every  member  of  staff  is  engaged  in  our  appraisal 
process and has the opportunity to discuss their personal development and their aspirations. 
We re-launched our appraisal scheme for all staff in September 2017. 
 
We are committed to considering how to make our job roles more flexible- including senior 
role. 
 
 
*https://www.equalityhumanrights.com/sites/default/files/research-report-15-work-and-care-
study-of-modern-parents.pdf 

 
 
 

