Our People

All MAXIMUS businesses in the UK have a strong culture of supporting colleagues, 
working together to provide high quality services and building strong teams.

We undertake regular assessment exercises to ensure that we are meeting the needs of 
our people. In the most recent colleague survey at Centre for Health and Disability 
Assessments, 83% of colleagues said they felt supported. At Health Management, 89% 
of colleagues felt that they were strongly supported at work.

We hold regular training events for our colleagues and offer opportunities to gain or 
extend professional and vocational qualiﬁcations. We also support internships and 
apprenticeships, with many of these leading to permanent positions within MAXIMUS 
businesses.

We recognise achievement through our staff awards programmes and encourage 
initiatives that recognise colleagues on a local level. Our commitment to colleagues
extends beyond the working environment. We support colleagues who volunteer and
those who give their time to local community outreach projects.

We have a tailored 24/7 occupational health advice and support service for all colleagues. 
Recently, we have begun rolling out new health and wellbeing programmes. We also 
provide specialist support for colleagues working in challenging environments. 

Marco Pierleoni
UK Division President

MAXIMUS regularly

recognise high performing

colleagues through our

awards programmes

Remploy are one of
a very small number
of UK companies with

Level 3 Disability
Conﬁdent Leader 

status

MAXIMUS employ over
3,800 people in 270
locations across the UK

Health Management Ltd (HML) has a median gender pay gap of 9.9% compared with a 
national median of 18.2%. The most senior members of HML are doctors, occupational health 
practitioners and the MAXIMUS UK executive team. 49% of the members of the highest pay 
quartile are male. However, the vast majority of more junior staff employed are women, with 
over 80% women in the lowest and upper middle pay quartiles, which greatly inﬂates the 
mean gender pay gap. We remain committed to recruiting more women into senior roles in 
our business, including senior clinical roles.

Within HML, bonuses are only paid to certain functions and so most employees are not in 
receipt of a bonus. There are also a high percentage of women working part-time – 80% of 
part-time employees receiving a bonus were female – so actual bonuses paid on a pro-rata 
basis were lower when compared to full-time working men. We offer ﬂexible part time roles 
and hope that more men will apply for these positions.

I conﬁrm that the information in this report is accurate.

Dr Paul Williams
Managing Director, Health Services, MAXIMUS UK

Gender Pay Gap

Mean

39.1%

48.9%

Median

9.9%

30.7%

Pay gap

Bonus gap

Proportion of females and males

in each pay quartile

Lower middle
pay quartile

33%

67%

Upper middle
pay quartile

12%

88%

Lowest pay

quartile

19%

81%

Highest

pay quartile

49% 51%

The proportion of
females and males
receiving a bonus

payment

Females

Males

29.7%

70.3%

53.4% 46.6%

received a bonus

received a bonus

did not receive
a bonus

healthmanagement.co.uk

info@healthmanltd.com

