Pay Gap 
Report 
2017

Gender & Ethnicity  
Pay Gap Reporting

December 2017

kpmg.com/uk

KPMG: Becoming a magnet 
for talent

2

Philip Davidson
Bill Michael
Chairman
Managing Partner

Anna Purchas
Anna Purchas
Head of People
Head of People

We have to get real about inclusion and 
diversity and we cannot achieve this 
without introspection and transparent data. 
It is critical KPMG becomes a magnet for 
talent – and that is talent in the broadest 
sense – different perspectives, different 
ideas, different thoughts and backgrounds. 
Diversity of thought is a commercial 
imperative.

KPMG wants employees with different backgrounds, life 
experiences and talents to help us provide forward-thinking 
solutions and ideas. Employees can only do this in an 
environment where they have the freedom to be creative and 
where diverse thinking is welcomed and encouraged. Enabling 
all our people to reach their full potential creates an attractive 
space for the best talent and helps us to be successful in the 
market place by fulfilling the expectations of our clients. For 
me, it is simple, inclusion and diversity is deeply ingrained in 
our values and must be part of our business strategy to ensure 
continued growth and success. 
Our current pay gap is not acceptable. We have worked hard  to 
increase the female and ethnic minority representation within 
our organisation at senior levels, including the introduction 
of GROW and Beliefs, Biases and Behaviours programmes, 
however it is clear we still have much progress to make. 
Unless we are open and honest about our position, we cannot 
fully address the underlying issues and achieve our goal of 
building a truly inclusive workforce. In recognition of our firm’s 
commitment to this, inclusion and diversity has been identified 
as one of our Chairman’s priority strategic objectives. 

KPMG is passionate about creating an inclusive 
environment and culture where all colleagues 
thrive and can achieve their full potential. Since 
2015, we have voluntarily chosen to report 
our gender pay gap data. This year, we are 
publishing our gender pay gap to comply with 
the statutory reporting requirements of the UK 
government. We are again going a step further 
than the statutory requirement and are voluntarily 
publishing our ethnicity pay gap figures.

Our data shows that we still have more men than women in 
senior positions and we still have more White colleagues than 
Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) colleagues in senior 
positions. We are constantly striving to innovate in the area of 
inclusion and diversity and it is by improving our diversity at 
senior grades that we will close our pay gaps. However, we 
recognise there is still a great deal of work to be done.
This year we have introduced a reverse mentoring scheme with 
the help of our African and Caribbean Network for members of 
our Executive Committee. Within Management Consulting we 
are proud of our IT’s Her Future campaign aimed at recruiting 
more women into technology. Some of our other programmes 
and initiatives are referenced later in this report.
Going forward we will have an increased level of accountability 
within the business which means we will be in a better position 
than ever before to hold ourselves to account and drive 
inclusion and diversity through the heart of everything  
we do. Our Inclusive Leadership Board continue to offer us 
support and guidance in achieving this.

Declaration
We confirm that KPMG UK Ltd’s pay gap data has been collected  
and presented within this report in accordance with the Equality Act 2010  
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Philip Davidson

Pay Gap Report 2017© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap 

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference in the 
average pay between men and women. In common with 
many other large UK employers, our gender pay gap is 
driven by:

 – Employing more males than females at a senior level

 – Employing more females in junior and support roles

3
3

This differs from an equal pay gap; which is a failure to pay 
men and women like pay for like work. KPMG has relevant 
processes in place to ensure our approach to pay and reward for 
our people is based on fairness and we have robust processes 
in place to ensure that our people are treated equally.

Snapshot, quartiles and dimensions reporting: 

The total in scope KPMG population for gender pay 
reporting is 13,444 with a male/female split of 7,037 
(52.3%) / 6,407 (47.7%).

Pay Quartiles

Basic pay – difference in average pay between 
men and women

£

Median

22.1%

Mean

22.3%

The below quartiles set out the gender distribution across 
KPMG Ltd in four equally sized quartiles.

Bonus reporting

56.1

Q1

43.9

54.6

Q2

45.4

Lower

Lower middle

46.7

Q3

53.3

33.2

Q4

66.8

Upper middle

Upper

% Men
% Women

The total in scope KPMG employees for gender pay 
reporting who received a bonus is 12,040 with a 
male/female split of 6,156 (51.1%) / 5,884 (48.9%).

Bonuses – difference in average bonus paid 
between men and women who received a bonus

Median

27.6%

86.2%

Received a bonus

Mean

51.3%
85.8%

Received a bonus

What do we think about our gap?

How we report our pay gap

Let us be clear, our results are disappointing and we recognise 
that we need to make better progress in reducing this gap.

The gender pay gap will persist until there is a greater number 
of women at a senior level in our organisation. We are deeply 
committed to addressing this. 

Previously we have reported our median pay gap based on 
gross pay, rather than pay after salary sacrifice as now required 
by statute. KPMG’s median gender pay gap is 22.1% whilst 
the mean gender pay gap is 22.3%. This looks like an increase 
on last year (2016: 20%), but is due to a change in reporting 
methodology.

In addition, our analysis shows that across the organisation 
women sacrifice a higher proportion of their salary for 
employee benefits, and this helps explain the increase in the 
gap based on last year’s voluntary reporting using gross pay.

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member 
firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Pay Gap Report 2017

Pay Gap Report 2017Ethnicity Pay Gap

The ethnicity pay gap is the difference in the average 
pay between White and BAME colleagues and has been 
calculated using the statutory methodology. Our pay gap 
of 11.7% is driven by:

 – Employing fewer BAME individuals in senior roles 

 – Employing more BAME in junior and support roles

4

In the same way as gender, our approach to pay and reward is 
based on fairness and we have robust processes in place to 
ensure that our people are treated equally. 

Snapshot, quartiles and dimensions reporting: 

The total in scope KPMG population for ethnicity pay 
reporting is 12,784* with a White/BAME split of 9,539 
(74.6%) / 3,245 (25.4%).

Pay Quartiles

Basic pay – difference in average pay between 
White and BAME

£

Median

11.7%

Mean

13.9%

The below quartiles set out the ethnicity distribution across 
KPMG Ltd in four equally sized quartiles.

Bonus reporting

26.8

Q1

73.2

28.5

Q2

71.5

Lower

Lower middle

27.7

Q3

72.3

18.6

Q4

81.4

Upper middle

Upper

% White
% BAME

The total in scope KPMG employees for ethnicity 
pay reporting who received a bonus is 11,378 with a 
White/BAME split of 8,781 (77.2%) / 2,597 (22.8%).

Bonuses – difference in average bonus paid 
between White and BAME who received a bonus

Median

23.1%

88.3%

of White employees 
received a bonus

Mean

38.5%
77.5%

of BAME employees 
received a bonus

What do we think about our gap?

How we report our pay gap

This is the first time that we have reported on our ethnicity 
pay gap. We do this on a voluntary basis to be transparent. It 
is clear there is much work to be done to better understand 
what is causing this gap and how we can address it. Work is 
already under way to do this.  

For both gender and ethnicity purposes:

 – Hourly pay is based on 5 April 2017 data.

 – Bonus pay is based on bonuses paid in the period 6 April 

2016 to 5 April 2017.

 – * Our ethnicity data is based on those individuals who have 
chosen to declare their ethnicity, which is just over 95% of 
our total employee population.

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member 
firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.

Pay Gap Report 2017

Addressing the gap

5

Actions we are taking
Attracting and retaining a more diverse workforce into 
KPMG
 – We have introduced a requirement for a 50% diverse 
shortlist for all our senior hires, in addition to internal 
targets for our business leaders from January 2018.

 – Our innovative graduate recruitment programme 

LaunchPad helps to deliver a diverse student intake.

 – We are further developing our award winning 

GROW programme, a 360-degree development 
programme,  which helps our diverse talent 
discover their personal work and leadership style, 
understand brand and develop authentic stakeholder 
management to maximise their career potential.

 – Our IT’s Her Future campaign is designed to tackle 

the gender gap in IT and attract, empower and 
develop women in technology by offering easy 
access to networking and opportunities that can help 
advance their careers.

Tackling the barriers to progression 
 – To better understand the potential barriers to 

progression, in Autumn 2017, KPMG commissioned 
the Bridge Group to research whether, and how, 
gender, ethnicity and socio-economic background, 
affect employees’ progression in the firm. The 
Bridge Group is an independent organisation, based 
at King’s College London, that researches and 
promotes diversity and inclusion.  

 – The independent study includes analysis of our 
anonymised workforce and leavers data, and in 
depth interviews with over sixty employees across 
the business. It also draws on the latest research 
and guidance across sectors, to identify existing 
best practices.

 – The research, which will include specific 

recommendations, will be finalised in early 2018. 
KPMG will use the evidence and advice from this 
wide-ranging study to further inform its work to 
address progression within the firm.

We all play a part in creating an inclusive 
culture and we have built on our existing 
action plan to help us achieve this.

Achieving gender parity
We are leading from the top and 31% of our new 
Executive Committee is female and 43% of our 
new Board is female. All but one of our Board sub-
committees has a female chair. 
Of the graduate and school leaver offers accepted, 
49% and 46% respectively were female. 
We are regularly recognised externally for our work on 
promoting an inclusive culture, including recognition 
this year from Business in the Community and 
Stonewall.
However, we recognise that there is a lot more work 
to be done to achieve parity across our senior grades 
from a gender and ethnicity perspective. 

“ I was promoted to CFO whilst on maternity 
leave and although I enjoy my job, the 
intellectual challenge, the team work, and 
camaraderie, I also wanted to ensure I would 
have time to spend with my daughter, who is 
now 26 months old. 

  KPMG has supported me in my decision to 
work a 4 day week, despite the CFO role 
normally being a full-time position, however I 
recognise that for many parents, the decision 
of how to balance their work and home life is 
a difficult one. Recognising these difficulties, I 
now champion the Parenting Network, sharing 
my experiences and encouraging parents to 
consider the flexible working opportunities 
available to them. 

  Publishing this report is an important step in 
increasing awareness and accountability. It is 
important for us as a firm, but also the wider 
industry, to investigate further the issues 
driving the data and to implement effective, 
gap reducing measures.” 

Sarah Willows
Chief Financial Officer at KPMG UK Ltd

Pay Gap Report 2017© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.Addressing the gap

6

Supporting a diverse and inclusive working environment
 – Our latest resource and coaching programme 

Empowering Parents supports parents through every 
significant event they have with their children.
 – In Spring, we launched our Beliefs, Biases and 
Behaviours (BBB) programme. This consists of 
a thought-provoking collection of resources and 
face-to-face workshops, targeted at all colleagues, 
focused on increasing awareness of our own bias 
and the impact this can have on the decisions we 
make and the behaviours we exhibit. We have 
mandated this programme for our senior leaders.

 – We continue to promote Intelligent Working 

throughout the organisation for all our colleagues, 
recognising that we have many colleagues who 
value a flexible way of working.

 – We are proud of our 16 employee networks across 

the organisation, some of which have received 
external recognition for their work in helping us to 
become a more inclusive workplace. Our African 
Caribbean network helped us introduce a popular 
reverse mentoring scheme with the ExCo and BME 
colleagues earlier this year.

Challenging ourselves – our Inclusive Leadership Board
 – We know that we benefit from external challenge 

and rigour in all that we do and so in 2016 we 
refreshed the Inclusive Leadership Board (ILB) to 
enable challenge around our Inclusion and Diversity 
and Social Mobility agenda.

 – The overarching role of the ILB is to provide a check 

and challenge to our Board and to ensure that we 
are embedding inclusion and diversity in all that we 
do. 

 – We also ask the ILB to pay particular attention to 

the impact that our actions have on our people, our 
clients and our wider stakeholders. 

 – We have asked one of our external ILB members to 
comment on our reported pay gap and inclusion and 
diversity progress towards our targets.

“ The ILB has held robust debates and made 
bold recommendations to move its priorities 
from a “nice thing to do” activity to a 21st 
century performance prerogative that will help 
drive growth, productivity, performance and 
wellbeing within the employee base. The ILB 
works to help KPMG stand in better stead to 
win the war for talent by creating a leadership 
culture, fit-for purpose policies and procedures 
and firm-wide climate that will attract and 
retain a diverse population of the most 
talented individuals and by demonstrating 
that same leadership with the clients and 
communities alike.” 

John Amaechi
Amaechi Performance Systems  
and KPMG ILB member

Pay Gap Report 2017© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.kpmg.com/uk

© 2017 KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network 
of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG 
International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved.
The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International.
Design by CREATE | CRT089790 | December 2017

