Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2018

Moores Furniture Group Limited are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workforce. We recognise 
the  importance  of  diversity  and  how  this  can  contribute  to  creating  higher  performing  teams  and  overall 
business success.

Considering this, we have welcomed the opportunity to comply with the new Government requirement under 
the Equality Act 2010 to report on our Gender Pay Gay. This development requires all UK organisations with 
250 or more employees to publish specific information about their gender pay position. This includes details 
of  mean  and  median  gender  pay  and  bonus  gaps,  as  well  as  a  gender  breakdown  of  highest  to  lowest 
earners and bonus recipients.

We already comply with the law and do what is right in terms of parity of pay for roles at the same level 
under the legislation relating to Equal Pay, however by looking at the average pay by gender, regardless of 
the roles performed, we can have a greater awareness of the representation of women in our business and 
our industry. 

This will allow us to tailor our people strategy, focusing on how we can improve on our results and ensure 
we have the right people in the right jobs regardless of gender. 

We  are  pleased  to  report  that  our  results  as  shown  in  Table  1  are  significantly  below  the  national  UK 
average  of  18.1%  as  reported  by  The  Office  for  National  Statistics,  along  with  the  average  for  Furniture 
Table 1

Table 2

Table  2  shows  the  gender  distribution  across  4  equal 
hourly  pay  quartiles.  Our  results  show  that  women  are 
fairly represented across each quartile. This is positive as 
it  suggests  that  women’s  careers  are  not  stalling  at 
Moores and are able to progress to senior positions in the 

Table 3

Table  3  shows  the  difference  in  bonus  payments
between men and women in 12 months preceding April
2017.  These  figures  mean  that  66%  of  females  got  a
bonus, and 91% of males got a bonus, however it should
be  noted  that  we  believe  this  figure  will  have  been
influenced by all those eligible in Operations receiving a
£150 Christmas bonus, the majority of which were men.
Looking  at  the  overall  figures  in  Table  1  however  we
note  the  Pay  Gap  in  terms  of  amounts  paid  bonus  is  -
2.2% in favour of women.

At  Moores  we  have  a  variety  of  mechanisms  to  promote  consistency  in  reward,  including  salary
benchmarking and job evaluation. Whilst we are not looking towards an era of positive discrimination, we do
plan on continuing to act to increase equality further. Our plans include continuing to have and build upon
transparent  career  paths  and  salary  structures,  promoting  better  work-life  balance  and  flexible  working,
building  awareness  of  equality  issues  amongst  managers,  supporting  career  aspirations  via  support
networks, mentorship and flexibility and demonstrating our leadership commitment to equality. 

We confirm the date is accurate 

For Moores Furniture Group Limited
Steve Parkin 
CEO 

For Moores Furniture Group Limited
Tracey Sewell 
HR Director 

