FORMULA 1
2017 GENDER PAY 
GAP REPORT

MESSAGE FROM 
CHASE CAREY 
AND DIANE BABB

Further to the change of ownership in early 2017 the 
company embarked on a change agenda to broaden the 
appeal of the sport and to build a more diverse following.

Part of that mission has been to ensure that our employees 
reflect the fanbase that we serve. 
Clearly there is a job to be done to create more gender 
diversity at Formula 1 and the leadership team are committed 
to doing just that.
 
Already in the past year, we have:
•  Moved to eliminate gender stereotypes like ‘grid girls’ 

that sit at odds with our values as a global sport
Supported F1 In Schools to strengthen the routes to 
enter the motorsport industry 
Launched internships, open days and a range of mentor-
ing schemes to encourage young women to experience 
working life in motorsport at our Biggin Hill broadcast 
and engineering facility

• 

• 

• 

In the short-term we will:
• 

Ensure that we have gender balanced shortlists for  
all candidates
Establish and undertake research into unconscious bias 
training for all managers

Our sport commands a global following of over 503 million 
people. To succeed as a business, Formula 1 employees need 
to represent our fan base which is why we must attract a 
range of backgrounds.

We welcome the Gender Pay Gap Regulations which has 
challenged us to consider our gender pay gap and its under-
lying causes.  This report is an important step in having more 
meaningful and transparent conversations with our work-
force and our fans, and we want to continue the dialogue.

SIGNED

Chase Carey, Executive Chairman and CEO, Formula 1

SIGNED

Diane Babb, Director of HR, Formula 1

WHAT IS  
THE GENDER 
PAY GAP?

Formula 1 is required to report on all employees within the 
Formula 1 entity, including global and regional employees 
based in the UK.

The gender pay gap is different to equal pay. 

‘Equal pay’ refers to men and women receiving equal pay for  
the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value.  Formula 1  
is confident that it complies fully with equal pay legislation  
and we review our salary and compensation structures 
regularly to ensure that there is no unfair gender or other 
bias in how our staff are paid.

The publication of gender pay gap figures is now a UK 
Government regulation requirement.

Organisations and businesses must comply with the 
regulation on an ongoing basis for any year where they have 
a headcount of 250 or more employees.

The gender pay gap highlights the difference in the average 
hourly earnings of men and women regardless of their roles 
or industry sectors. The legislation aims to create greater 
awareness of the imbalance of earnings between men and 
women over the span of their careers and to encourage 
employers to consider ways to close the gap.

The gender pay gap measures the difference in the average 
pay between all men and women in a workforce according 
to prescribed calculations e.g. average male pay of £100 per 
hour against an average female pay of £75 per hour would 
result in a gender pay gap of +25%. 

Gender split

72%

28%

This graphic outlines the percentage of men and women 
permanently employed at Formula 1.

Pay quartiles
The percentages of all male and female colleagues within each quartile pay band is:

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE
QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE
QUARTILE

TOP
QUARTILE

46.7%

79.3%

83.7%

77.4%

53.3%

20.7%

16.3%

22.6%

This graphic outlines the percentage of men and women in each pay quartile. Quartiles are calculated by setting out the rates of pay for each 
employee across Formula 1 from lowest to highest, before splitting that list into four equal-sized groups and calculating the percentage of males 
and females in each.

Gender pay gap

+26.7%

+51.9%

Mean gap

+26.7%

Median gap

+51.9%

The graphic shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as of the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.

This reflects that there are more men than women in senior, 
more highly paid positions within our company, but also that 
women are under-represented in some parts of our 
workforce. Our Technical division (broadcast and media, 
technical systems, research and development, IT, digital 
and logistics) is predominantly male, as is our Motor 
Sport division (technical and engineering research and 
development and other race-based activities), which reflects 
and is the consequence of the scarcity of women pursuing 

careers in science, technology and engineering sectors of 
industry.  Further, the global nature of the Formula One 
World Championship involves extensive overseas travel – 
many of our employees are away from home for more than 
20 weeks each year.

Proportion of Formula 1's men and women paid a bonus

Bonus pay difference between 
men and women

95.5%

95.5%

92.3%

95.5%

92.3%

+18.8%

92.3%

+18.8%
+66.8%
Mean

+66.8%
+18.8%
Median

+66.8%

Formula 1 refers to all bonuses paid in the year up to 5th April 2017 for the calculation of the bonus gap. 
The calculation is based on actual bonus paid rather than full-time equivalent.

WHAT WE ARE 
DOING TO 
ADDRESS OUR 
GENDER PAY GAP

•  Recruited a number of women to senior and middle 

management positions – Women are well represented 
at every level in Formula 1’s Corporate division (includes 
legal, finance and administration) up to and including 
executive board level.  In Formula 1’s Commercial 
division, which has been expanded significantly since 
April 2017, 30% of director level positions are held by 
women, some of whom have been promoted internally 
within the past 12 months.

•  Regularly reviewing our reward structures – In 2018, 
Formula 1 has introduced a new annual bonus plan 
to apply to all personnel, the effect of which will be 
reflected in gender pay gap calculations referable to April 
2019. Annual bonus targets will be a percentage of basic 
salary and the level of award will be determined by the 
fulfilment of company-wide and individual performance 
targets. Formula 1 will monitor the outcomes of this new 
plan to evaluate its impact on gender pay gap.

•  Recruitment policies and practices - We are discussing 

other initiatives internally, including a review of our 
recruitment policies and practices to encourage greater 
gender and other diversity of applicants generally, the 
introduction of a mentoring scheme and a broadening of 
our existing internship opportunities, particularly in our 
Technical division. 

• 

Strongly involved in and promoting F1 In Schools 
–  An international initiative organised on a not-for-
profit basis which aims to encourage schoolchildren 
of all backgrounds to engage in science, technology, 
engineering and maths related subjects as part of their 
education, which is an essential pre-cursor if more 
women are to be encouraged to pursue their careers in 
the technology and engineering sectors. The number 
of girls participating in the challenges – which lead to a 
yearly world final – is growing exponentially.  We are also 
a proud supporter of Dare To Be Different, an initiative 
that helps to inspire, connect, showcase and develop 
women who currently work in, or want to work in motor 
sport.

• 

Approaching schools interested in entering one of the 
many careers available in Formula 1 – In Kent, we will be 
offering internships, open days and a range of mentoring 
schemes to encourage young people to experience 
working life at Formula 1.

