 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Statutory Reporting 

1.  

Introduction 

The College has a legal duty to report information relating to gender pay differences by 
30 March 2018.  This duty applies to all employers with a workforce of 250 or more 
employees. 

2. 

Overview of the Gender Pay Gap Requirement 

2.1  What are employers required to publish? 

The College is required to publish the following data based on the payroll of employees as of 
31 March 2017.  

•  Mean average difference - between the average hourly rate of pay that male and 

female employees receive (calculation = total of all hourly pay rates divided by number 
of individuals in each gender).  

•  Median average difference – between the hourly rate of pay that male and female 

employees receive (calculation = difference between the hourly pay at the 50th 
percentile for male and female employees). 

•  Quartiles – the percentage of males and females in each quartile of the employer’s 

payroll based on employees’ individual hourly pay rates. 

•  Bonus Payments – the level of bonus payments above regular salary awarded by 
gender and the mean and median difference between the amount of bonus for 
male/female employees (regular salary includes market supplements, overtime, shift 
payments etc.).  The College does not currently have any bonus payments for 
employees. 

2.2 

The Isle of Wight College’s Gender Pay Reporting 

On the 31 March 2017 the College had 515 employment contracts held by 403 employees. 
This reflects the fact that a number of employees hold two or more contracts (for example, 
learning support assistant and sessional lecturer).  63.9% of the total number of employees 
are female. 

The statutory reported data appearing on the government website is as follows: 

1.  Women’s hourly rate is: 

 

o  9% lower (mean average) 
o  13.7% lower (median average) 

 

2.  How many men and women are in each quartile of the employer’s payroll in terms of 

hourly pay rate: 

 

 
Top Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Supporting Statement 

 

Male 

42.6% 
42.2% 
25.0% 
24.0% 

Female 

57.4% 
57.8% 
75.0% 
76.0% 

The Isle of Wight College is committed to the principle of equality of opportunity and 
equal treatment of all employees and job applicants, regardless of their gender, race, 
disability, age, religion or belief, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy, sexual 
orientation, gender reassignment.  

Under the Equality Act 2010, men and women must receive equal pay for the same 
work, or work of equal value.  The College is proud of the gender diversity of its 
workforce.  63.9% of employees are female and females account for the majority of 
staff in each of the four pay quartiles.  The College can confirm that all male and 
female staff are paid the same rates of pay for the same job roles.  For example, a 
male and female staff member who are both Lecturers in Hairdressing or Learning 
Support Assistants or Administrators, will be paid the same pay grade. 

Ensuring equal pay arrangements at The Isle of Wight College  

The College recognises and is vigilant in ensuring that both males and females have 
equal access to roles at the College.  To ensure this the College adopts the following 
measures: 

•  Anonymised shortlisting for interview for recruitment. 
•  A Family Policy and Flexible Working Policy which are designed to support and 

encourage applicants who have responsibilities for family and other dependents.  
For example, we offer a range of part-time and term time only contracts which 
provide flexibility around school hours. 

•  We proactively promote our Family Policy including the new Shared Parental Leave 

arrangements, which enables female staff to share maternity leave with their 
partner. 

•  Ensuring pay rates are competitive and reflective of pay for similar roles in other 

organisations.  For example, we have recently increased pay rates for Learning 

2 

 

3. 

i) 

ii) 

 

iii) 

 

Support and similar roles to ensure we remain competitive.  This has directly 
benefited female staff in the bottom quartile of pay rates.  

•  Recruitment of new staff in 2016/17 was 69% female: 31% male.  
•  Of internal promotion secured by existing employees in 2016/17, 80% were female 

and 20% male. 
 
To prevent unequal pay, the College, in line with many other large organisations, has 
a Pay Framework in place.  This is agreed by the Corporation, in consultation with 
trade union representatives and reflects national pay scales for further education. 
The Pay Framework: 
 

•  Utilises objective pay grades to establish particular salaries for particular types of 

role (e.g. Lecturer, Administrator).  These pay rates are applied to the role regardless 
of the individual and their gender or any other personal equality characteristics, as 
defined by the Equality Act 2010. 

•  Evaluates job roles and determines pay grades using an objective evaluation process 

• 

which has been agreed with and involves trade union representatives. 
Includes a pre-determined and objective mechanism for agreeing the limited use of 
market supplements where the College is unable to recruit to specific posts due to 
market pressures on salaries.  For example, there is a UK wide shortage of suitably 
qualified engineering professionals, both for general industry and the education 
sector. 

•  Provides for the Corporation’s Senior Postholders Remuneration Committee to 

determine pay rates for senior positions based on salary data from the education 
sector. 

Analysis of Gender Pay Gap 

The gender pay gap at the College is directly related to the higher proportion of 
females employed in the lower two quartiles of the workforce (76% in the lower 
quartile and 75% in the upper lower quartile) and the types of job which are in these 
two quartiles (including learning support and administrative support roles).  It should 
also be noted that female employees form the majority of the workforce in both the 
top and upper middle pay quartiles at 57.4% and 57.8% respectively. 

The College encourages flexible working arrangements wherever possible and at all 
pay grades.  However, the business requirements for learning and administrative 
support work is more likely to fit with part-time and term time only working 
arrangements.  These roles in turn attract a higher proportion of female candidates 
which in part is due to the flexibility they provide in fitting with responsibilities for 
family or other dependents.     

3 

iv)  

 

v) 

vi) 

 

vii)  While we are not required to produce the following information it is helpful in 

providing a clearer picture on average hourly pay rates in each quartile for male and 
female staff.  

 

 

 

Top Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

Male Mean Average  

Hourly Pay Rate 

Female Mean Average  

Hourly Pay Rate 

£17.39 
£13.04 
£8.64 
£8.21 

£16.86 
£12.99 
£8.56 
£8.21 

 

viii) 

The above data illustrates that average pay rates are very similar with the exception 
of the top quartile.  When examining the top quartile in more detail the reasons for 
the difference are due to a larger proportion of male staff having a longer length of 
service in their current role and they have therefore reached the top of their pay 
scale.  A larger proportion of female staff are still progressing through the additional 
increments achieved for each pay grade for additional service.  As female staff reach 
the top of their grade this gap should close.  This will be monitored, including in 
terms of future recruitment and promotion. 

For any queries about the College’s Gender Pay reporting please contact Peter Thompson, 
Assistant Principal for Resources at peter.thompson@iwcollege.ac.uk. 

Debbie Lavin 
Principal 

 
28th March 2018 

 

4 

