The Gender Pay Gap

GMB

The gender pay gap is concerned with differences in the average earnings of men and women over 
a standard time period, regardless of their role or seniority.

It is a measure which therefore captures not only historic and structural equal pay issues within 
an organisation but also any pay inequalities resulting from differences in the types of jobs 
performed by men and women.

GMB is committed to transparency on this issue as part of our commitment to equality. This data 
was collected on 5 April 2017, when our workforce consisted of a total of 605 staff – 351 women 
(58%) and 254 men (42%).

The figures show that:

 Ì GMB has a mean gender pay gap of 25.5% - the median pay gap is 32.4%

GMB has been voluntarily calculating the gender pay gap for a number of years. Over the last three 
years, our organisation’s mean gender pay gap narrowed significantly by 5.5% - down from 31% in 
2014 to 25.5% in 2017. 

Equal Pay for Equal Work

The gender pay gap is not about equal pay for equal work. GMB has long taken on legal cases 
to win tens of millions in compensation for our members who have faced pay discrimination at work.

GMB undertook a job evaluation exercise in 2015 and conducted subsequent equal pay audits 
in 2016 and 2017. We take this issue seriously are committed to continuing to monitor our pay 
structures to ensure the principle of equal pay for equal work is being applied in our organisation.

Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) advice for equal pay reviews is that gender grade 
pay gaps of 5% of more should be treated as significant, requiring further investigation to identify 
the cause. Gaps of 3 to 5% could also be indicative of gender pay discrimination if they are part of a 
pattern.

Our most recent internal equal pay 
audit in 2017 confirms that grade-by-
grade, across a staff team of more 
than 600, there is no statistically 
significant gender pay grade gap in 
favour of men at any pay grade, nor 
is there a pattern of disparity across 
different grades indicative of gender 
pay discrimination against women.
 

Average gender pay gap by salary grade

 

Grade 12
Grade 11
Grade 10
Grade 9
Grade 8
Grade 7
Grade 6
Grade 5
Grade 4
Grade 3
Grade 2
Grade 1

Men

Women

25

%

15

%

5

%

5

%

15

%

25

%

 
Organisation Population and Roles
GMB’s workforce consisted of 605 staff on 5 April 2017 – 351 women (58%) and 254 men (42%).

There are quite significant variations in the number of men and women employed at different 
grades across GMB. The organisation employs significantly higher numbers of women than men 
in the lower and lower middle quartiles – typical roles in this quartile include secretary (grade 4), 
administrative assistant (grade 3) and receptionist (grade 2). GMB employs significantly higher 
numbers of men in the upper middle and upper quartiles – typical jobs in this quartile include 
organiser (grade 7) and senior organiser (grade 9). 

A significant explanatory factor underlying GMB's overall gender pay gap is the higher proportion of 
women employed at grades 3 and 4 and the higher proportion of men employed in grades 7 and 
above - and the impact this has on average salaries split by gender.

 

Number of employees at each pay grade split by gender

 

Grade 12
Grade 11
Grade 10
Grade 9
Grade 8
Grade 7
Grade 6
Grade 5
Grade 4
Grade 3
Grade 2
Grade 1

Men
Women

200

150

50

50

150

200

Proportion of employees at each pay quartile split by gender

 

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Women Men

33.1% 

66.9% 

39.7% 

60.3% 

25.2% 

Lower Quartile

15.8% 

Bonus Payments

74.8% 

84.2% 

 

GMB does not operate a performance-related bonus system; annual bonuses or ‘Christmas 
payments’ are awarded to staff on a region-by-region basis, either uniformly or in line with pay 
grades. The proportion of men receiving a bonus is 83% and the proportion of women receiving a 
bonus is 87%. The gap between mean bonus was 5.7% and the median was 9.3%. 

Steps to improve our gender pay gap….

Although GMB narrowed our gender pay gap by 5.5% between 2014 and 2017, progress has not 
been fast enough, and we are committed to work on closing the gender pay gap. Here are just a 
few steps we are taking… 

Officer Development Programme

GMB’s Officer Development programme enables staff on lower pay grades to gain experience 
at officer grade, breaking down segregation between roles, and building the experience needed 
to access jobs that were in the past all too often out of reach. Moving from an administrative to 
officer role does not happen overnight, but it is happening. Women who have participated in that 
programme are now permanently promoted as organisers – and making a huge contribution to 
building our union. We will continue to encourage women and support to progress through GMB’s 
staffing structures through this programme. 

Women in Leadership

We have more women senior organisers than ever in our history. Two of our senior directors are now 
women. Two of our three National Secretaries are women too. Whilst this will not make a significant 
difference to the headline gender pay gap, supporting women into leadership positions in GMB is 
vital in furthering the role of women in our workplaces.

 
Women’s Taskforce

For a number of years a Women’s Task Force has been working to strategically address the place 
of women in our union, and cemented policies and practices to address this issue. Women’s 
conferences will now take place not only nationally but in all GMB regions. A women’s network has 
been formed.

 
Training and Recruitment

We are currently reviewing how we provide training to make it more accessible - the first step on 
the ladder to become an employee is often being a workplace rep, and women are still under 
represented in those structures too.

We recruit externally as well as internally on all positions.  Organisational policies have been 
introduced such as flexible working to facilitate women returning to work following maternity leave 
and to remove access barriers for working mothers and those with caring responsibilities.

 
Job Evaluation and Equal Pay Audit

GMB undertook a job evaluation exercise in 2015 and conducted subsequent equal pay audits in 
2016 and 2017. We will conduct our next Equal Pay Audit in 2019 to ensure the principle of equal 
pay for equal work continues to be upheld throughout our organisation.

