 

Servoca Nursing & Care Ltd Gender Pay Gap Report 

The  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017  require  all 
private sector employers with 250 + workers to publish a range of data. The Gender 
Pay Gap is the difference between the average earnings of male and females, who 
could be engaged in very different roles and is not the same as Equal Pay, which is 
comparing  pay  rates  for  males  and  females  who  perform  the  same,  or  equivalent 
value, roles.  

As  a  recruitment  business  we  are  required  to  report  data  which  includes  the 
temporary  staff  we  place  in  care  homes,  residential  care  and  supported  living 
environments, 
in  addition  to  our  own  employees,  who  are  predominantly 
Recruitment  Consultants.  We  have  calculated  our  gender  pay  for  2017  using  data 
taken on the snap shot date of 5 April 2017.  

Pay & Bonus Gap – difference between male and female 

 

Hourly Pay 

Bonus 

 

Mean 

23.6% 

62.1% 

Median 

3.5% 

87.5% 

 The above table illustrates our overall mean gender pay gap based on hourly rates 
of pay as at the snap shot date of 5 April 2017. The Office for National Statistics puts 
the  overall  gender  pay  gap  in  the  UK  at  18.1%  in  2016,  so  confirms  the  average 
gender pay gap is slightly higher within our business. 

The median gender pay gap can be described as if all our workers lined up, female 
in 1 line and males in another, in order of pay received, the median gender pay gap 
compares the pay of the female in the middle to the pay of the male in the middle.  

The table also shows the mean and median difference in bonuses paid to male and 
females in the 12 month reference period to 5 April 2017. 

Pay Quartiles 

 

Upper quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Lower quartile 

 

Female 

62.4% 

64.7% 

76.5% 

82.1% 

Male 

37.6% 

35.3% 

23.5% 

17.9% 

The above table shows the proportion of males to females by quartile bands of pay 
and bonus level. 

Summary 

The  gender  pay  gap  is  largely  driven  by  the  greater  number  of  females  in  our 
temporary  workforce  who  work  as  Care  Assistants  who  do  not  earn  bonuses.  A 

 

predominantly female workforce is common within the Care industry, where there is 
a shortage of qualified male care workers and 82% of the workforce is female (Skills 
for  Care  2017).  The  pay  and  bonus  arrangements  for  the  temporary  workforce 
placed  are  outside  of  our  control,  as  they  are  dictated  by  the  clients  we  are  a 
provider to.  

As a company we aim to attract and retain a diverse, highly skilled, talent pool that 
reflect the communities we serve. Therefore our approach to pay  has always been 
gender neutral: 

  Our  temporary  workforce  are  primarily  female,  they  work  in  Care  Assistant 
positions  which  do  not  attract  commission  or  bonus  payment  and  this  is 
reflected in the Mean Bonus Paid and Median Bonus Paid results  

  All Recruitment Consultants in branch work to the same commission schemes, 
so it is down to personal performance, their gender is irrelevant as all have the 
same earning potential.  
There  are  a  larger  proportion  of  women  that  hold  support  /administration 
positions  in  the lower quartile,  which attract  bonus payments  as  opposed  to 
commission earned by the Recruitment Consultants, which slightly affects the 
numbers.   

 

  Our  commission  and  bonus  schemes  are  transparent,  straightforward  and 

inclusive. 

We  are  confident  that  male  and  females  are  broadly  paid  equally  for  performing 
equivalent roles across our Company and when placed with a client.  

I can confirm that the data reported is accurate. 

 

 

James Turner 
Managing Director 
20/3/2018 
 

