LTA GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

At the Lawn Tennis Association, in order to ensure tennis continues to 
engage all audiences, we need to attract a diverse range of employees 
and retain talent. Our lack of diversity and gender imbalance, 
particularly at senior levels of our organisation, is something we want 
to address.  It is important to note that Gender Pay Gap is different 
from ‘equal pay’.  Equal pay is the difference in pay between men 
and women who carry out the same or comparable jobs. We want to 
be very clear that at the LTA, women and men in like-for-like roles are 
remunerated equally.  

We have a mean (average) gender pay gap of 31% and a median 
(middle) gender pay gap of 18%. This is in line with the current national 
median average of 18.1%. However we are not satisfied with this and we 
are acutely aware we still have work to do in closing this gap.  

We are committed to using this opportunity to look at how we can 
most effectively tackle the gap which exists, because we want to give 
everyone, men, women and those from under-represented groups 
working here the opportunity to reach their full potential.  Doing this 
will strengthen the LTA’s ability to deliver its goals. 

 
Gender Pay & Bonus Gap

Difference between men 
and women

Gender Pay Gap*

Mean
Average

31%

Median

Middle

18%

Gender Bonus Gap

55%

16%

*National Mean average is 29%; national median average is 18%

Proportion of Employees Receiving a Bonus

Received a bonus (%)

Did not receive a bonus (%)

87%

13%

74%

26%

Pay Quartiles
In the 2017 reporting period, the LTA has 293 employees, with an overall gender split of 51% (male) and 49% (female).  The following is the 
proportion of males and females in each pay quartile: 

39%

61%

45%

55%

54%

46%

66%

34%

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

UPPER MIDDLE

UPPER

Our Gender Pay Gap can be attributed to the following factors: 
• 

We have a clear gender imbalance in our very senior roles, at the top 
of our salary grades. And while women are under-represented at the 
highest level, a higher number of our lower-paid roles are undertaken 
by women as we offer better and more transparent flexible part time 
positions at the lower levels.
Men currently outnumber women in high performance sport related 

• 

• 

roles, plus we had Davis Cup related payments in 2016 which also 
affected our bonus gap.
Our part time roles attract a higher proportion of women – something 
that we are proud of; we have made those roles open to more flexible 
working and a greater percentage that are part time than there were 
ever before.  Currently 15% of our work force are part time (46 people) 
compared 0% three years ago.   

Our Commitment to Making a Difference
We have already started this process but getting to where we want to be 
will take time.  Our strategy to tackling this issue will be underpinned by 
three pillars: 
1. 

Inclusion and diversity is at the heart of everything we do (aligned 
to our company values). We work  with organisations such as Women 
Ahead, BAME Recruitment, Stonewall to support us in attracting a more 
diverse workforce. 

2.  Attracting and developing the best female talent by introducing 

unconscious bias training, ensuring more gender balanced short 

lists for senior positions, promoting flexible working opportunities 
both internally and externally, and encouraging appropriate career 
progression opportunities.

3.  Developing our leaders to provide right opportunities by creating a 
mentoring programme, appropriate independent advice for colleagues 
around career progression decisions, support for career returners 
(returnships) and increasing accessibility for female performance/
coaching roles. 

David Gregson, Chairman LTA

Vicky Williams, People Director, LTA

