 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

Longfield Academy Trust is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 31st March, 2017. 

  The mean gender pay gap for Longfield Academy Trust is 16.28%. 

  The median gender pay gap for Longfield Academy Trust is 26.45%. 

  The mean gender bonus gap for Longfield Academy Trust is 0%. 

  The median gender bonus gap for Longfield Academy Trust is 0%. 

  No employees of Longfield Academy Trust receive a bonus. 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Band  Males 

Females  Description 

A 

19.4% 

80.6% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them at or below the lower quartile 

B 

22.1% 

77.9% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the lower quartile but at or below the 
median 

C 

32.4% 

67.6% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the median but at or below the upper 
quartile 

D 

29.4% 

70.6% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the upper quartile 

Total 

25.8% 

74.2% 

Longfield Academy Trust has a female dominated 
workforce with nearly ¾ of employees being women 

What are the underlying causes of Longfield Academy Trust’s gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

 

the same or broadly similar work; 

  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 

  work of equal value. 

Longfield  Academy  Trust  is  committed  to  the  principle  of  equal  opportunities  and  equal 
treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil 

 
partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has 
a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their 
sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As such, it: 

  applies pay scales recommended nationally by the relevant joint unions: and 

  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

Longfield Academy Trust is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from 
paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap 
is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries 
that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while  women are more likely than 
men to be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are more 
likely to be in technical and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates of pay than other roles 
at similar levels of seniority. Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from 
work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are 
also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a 
part-time basis are relatively low paid. 

This pattern is not entirely consistent with the make-up of Longfield Academy Trust workforce, 
where  a  proportion  of  senior  roles  are  held  by  women,  as  you  would  expect  in  a  female 
dominated profession such as teaching. This can be seen above in the table depicting pay 
quartiles by gender. This shows Longfield Academy Trust’s workforce divided into four equal-
sized  groups  based  on  hourly  pay  rates,  with  Band  A  including  the  lowest-paid  25%  of 
employees (the lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% (the upper quartile). 
In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to 
women  in  each  Band.  However,  within  the  Trust,  80.6%  of  the  employees  in  Band  A  are 
women and 19.4% men. The percentage of male employees increases through Band B and 
Band C where it peaks at 32.4%, before falling to 29.4% in Band D.  However, even at this 
level the percentage of men is greater than their proportion of the workforce; 29.4% versus 
25.8%. 

The percentage of men and women in each band compared to the gender split is shown in 
the diagram: 

90%

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

A

B

C

D

Males

Females

Average Male

Average Female

 

 
However, it is true to say that the majority of lower paid roles within the Trust are part-time and 
the majority of these are held by women.  The table below shows the contract type and gender 
for the 4 lowest grades (103 roles) on the Trust’s pay structure: 

 

 

Number Male 

Percentage Male  Number Female 

Percentage Female 

 
Casual 
 
 
Full-time 
 
 
Part-time 
 
 
Total 
 

 

20 

1 

1 

22 

34% 

50% 

2% 

21% 

33 

1 

47 

81 

66% 

50% 

98% 

79% 

It can be seen that for the 48 part-time contracted roles within these grades, 98% are occupied 
by women.  These roles are predominantly those involved with catering and cleaning which 
are occupations usually held by women. 

What is Longfield Academy Trust doing to address its gender pay gap? 

Longfield Academy Trust is not complacent, and it is committed to addressing the gender pay 
gap through the implementation of an action plan. However, the Trust also recognises that its 
scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for example, no direct control over the subjects 
that individuals choose to study or the career choices that they make. 

To  promote  gender  diversity  in  all  areas  of  its  workforce,  the  Trust  will  take  the  following 
actions: 

  Create  an  evidence  base:  In  order  to  identify  any  barriers  to  gender  equality  and 
inform  priorities  for  action,  in  2017/2018  Longfield  Academy  Trust  will  extend  its 
workforce monitoring to understand:  

o 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited 

o 

the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation and their reasons 
for leaving 

o 

the numbers of men and women in each role and pay band 

o 

take-up  of  flexible  working  arrangements  by  gender  and  level  within  the 
organisation 

  Review the Flexible Working Policy: In order to ensure that the policy is clear that 
employees  in  all  areas  and  levels  of  the  organisation  will  be  considered  for  flexible 
working regardless of their role and level of seniority.  Following this review steps will 
be taken to ensure that all staff are aware of the policy and their rights under it. 

  Develop a Job-Share Policy: To increase the number of females applying for more 
senior roles, the Trust will explore increasing the number and type of roles which could 
be filled on a job-share basis.  

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Longfield Academy Trust is committed 

 
to  reporting  on  an  annual  basis  on  what  it  is  doing  to  reduce  the  gender  pay  gap  and  the 
progress that it is making. 

