Swim England Home News News Sports News Feeds About Us About Us Who We Are Swim England Governance Our Partners Contact Us What We Do What We Do National Awards Products Research and Insight Curriculum Swimming Teaching Swimming Teaching Swimming Learn to Swim Programme Learn to Swim Awards Swimming Teachers Swim Schools Managing Pools Managing Pools Running Pools Managing Clubs Managing Clubs Setting Up Clubs Running Clubs Developing Clubs Managing Volunteers Clubs FAQs Sports & Coaching Sports & Coaching Competitive Swimming Masters Swimming Synchronised Swimming Diving Water Polo Swim England Members Swim England Shop Regions Regions East Midland Region North West Region London Region East Region North East Region South East Region South West Region West Midland Region Newsletter Sign Up Search Our Gender Pay Gap 2017 25 March 2018 At Swim England, our vision of a nation swimming is wholly-inclusive. We believe all of our people deserve to be treated fairly and consistently whatever their background or protected characteristic. As such, we are committed to ensuring equal pay for all our team members and we will always strive to continuously ensure there are no differentials. In preparing this report, we’ve assessed the reward received by everyone who works with and provides services for us (employees, casual workers and contractors) in the April 2017 pay period. In this period we had an average (mean) gender pay gap of 11 per cent, compared with the national average of 18 per cent. We had a mid-point (median) gender pay gap of -9 per cent, compared with the national average of 10 per cent. Download a PDF of our report . Swim England Gender Pay Gap At the mid-point our report shows that in April 2017 female Swim England workers were paid almost nine per cent more than male workers. We have taken proactive steps to ensure that everyone who works with us in comparable roles at Swim England earns the same, irrespective of their gender. As no bonus payments were made during the reporting period, there are no bonus earnings on which to report. Pay Quartiles In the 2017 reporting period, Swim England had 468 workers, with an overall gender split of 56 per cent female and 44 per cent male. These quartile graphs demonstrate the proportion of females and males in each pay quartile, with each quartile containing 117 workers. In 2017 we continued to introduce steps to ensure equal pay rates applied across comparable roles for our casual and contracted workers. We have seen an increase in the number of workers who choose to work flexibly and we continue to support such flexibility wherever possible. We are proud to have promoted a female CEO, which is a shining example of our equal opportunities commitment in action. Who We Are Who We Are Popular Content Swim England Boards Board Meeting Minutes Swim England Strategy Annual Report © Copyright 2017 Website by Skylab