 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

Gender Pay Gap  
Report 2017 

Page 1 

 

 

 
Introduction 
 

 

We value diversity and believe in providing an 
environment where anyone can reach their full 
potential, regardless of gender.   

It differs from equal pay which is focused on the 
right of men and women to be paid at the same 
rate of pay for work that is of equivalent value.  

At Pelican Business Services we are proud to report a 
small gender pay gap which demonstrates the 
effectiveness of our fair and consistent 
compensation strategy.  

Our people are at the heart of our business and are a 
large part of what makes us successful. We strive to 
provide the right environment for personal 
development and job satisfaction, and engage staff 
in all major decisions affecting the company  to work 
well together to deliver for our customers. 

In the last few years we have been focussed on 
implementing an objective recruitment and selection 
process and our award winning Learning & 
Development initiatives have enabled team 
members to take up a multitude of internal career 
development opportunities.  

The skills and diversity within our workforce mean 
that Pelican is genuinely a great place to work, as 
demonstrated by our recent 20th position in the 
Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to work for. 

That’s why I’m pleased to be sharing our report and 
outlining our plans for the future.   

This statement confirms the published information is 
accurate and is signed by 

Charley Maher 
Managing Director, Pelican Business Services 

 

The gender pay gap 

The following report is based on all team 
members employed by Pelican Business Services 
on 5 April 2017.  

 

The analysis 

Throughout the report we measure two sets of 
figures, the ‘mean’ and the ‘median’ average, 
reporting on the percentage difference between 
men and women.  

By adding up every value and dividing the total by 
the number of team members, this enables us to 
calculate the mean average. 

The median average is obtained by listing every 
value in numerical order and identifying the value 
that occurs in the middle. This is beneficial as it 
removes the influence of the very highest and the 
very lowest values, and is more representative of 
the majority of our business. 

Reporting the data in this way helps us define our 
people strategy moving forward. 

 

 

The government introduced gender pay reporting for 
all companies with more than 250 employees via the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.  

The gender pay gap identifies the difference in 
earnings for men and women across all ages, roles 
and levels within the organisation.  

 

Page 1 

 

 

Our gender pay gap 

The gender pay gap is the difference between the 
average hourly pay received by men and women. This 
is reported by both the mean and median gender pay 
gap. 

The mean difference in hourly pay between men and 
women is:  

3.83% 

 

 

The median difference in hourly pay between men 
and women is: 

 

2.68% 

 

What our gender pay gap 
means: 
The analysis demonstrates that, on average, male 
team members earn 3.83% more than female team 
members and 2.68% more when looking at the 
median average. This compares favourably with the 
national mean average of 17% and median average of 
18%. 

What is included in hourly 
pay? 

Hourly pay includes basic pay, car allowances, 
standby payments, and other allowances. Excluded 
are overtime, benefits-in-kind (including company 
cars and medical insurance), the value of salary 
sacrifice schemes and termination payments.  

We use hourly earnings to ensure we are 
comparing like-for-like figures. This means we are 
able to exclude any differences which are 
attributable to different working patterns or part 
time hours.  

 

Who is included in the 
gender pay gap? 

All team members who were employed by Pelican 
on 5 April 2017 are included with the exception of 
anyone on a period of leave at a reduced level of 
pay, such as maternity leave or sickness absence. 

 

The factors that contribute 
to our gender pay gap 

Our lower mean pay gap of 3.83% is caused 
primarily by our strong gender diversity in our 
senior leadership team where more than half of the 
team is female. Small changes in the number of 
men and women at managerial level could cause 
changes to our gender pay gap in future years.  

The median gender pay gap removes the influence 
of those team members earning the highest or 
lowest salaries and is therefore more 
representative of the wider business.  

 

Pelican's Pay Gap vs National Average 

 

 

Page 2 

3.83%2.68%17%18%0.00%2.00%4.00%6.00%8.00%10.00%12.00%14.00%16.00%18.00%20.00%Mean Pay GapMedian Pay GapPelicanNational 
 

 

Our gender bonus gap 
The gender bonus gap is the difference between the 
average bonus received by men and women across 
Pelican in the year May 2016 – April 2017. This is 
reported by both the mean and median gender bonus 
gap.  

The mean difference in bonus pay between men and 
women is: 

2.97% 

 

The median difference in bonus pay between men 
and women is: 

27.88% 

 

In the 12 months prior to 5 April 2017, 80.42% of men 
and 76.44% of women had received a bonus. 

 

 

 

 

80.42% 

76.44% 

 
 

 

 

 

The factors that contribute to 
our gender bonus gap 
Every team member is eligible to receive a bonus in 
recognition of their achievements during the year. 
Our mean gender bonus gap of 2.97% shows that on 
average, our team members receive comparable 
bonuses, irrespective of whether they are men or 
women. 

Further analysis showed when taking into account 
anyone who received a pro-rata bonus due to a 
period of maternity leave, this impacted our mean 
gender bonus gap. 

When reviewing the median bonus gap, which 
removes the influence of the highest and lowest 
bonuses, the differences are attributable to the 
bonuses that our predominately male meter 
reading team receive for achieving their monthly 
performance targets.  

This also accounts for the higher percentage of men 
receiving bonuses than women as meter reading 
performance bonuses are paid on a monthly basis, 
compared to annual bonuses for the remainder of 
the business. 

 

 

 

 

Page 3 

 

The pay distribution 

The distribution of men and women is shown in 
pay quartiles which are calculated by splitting the 
whole business into four equal sized bands based 
on hourly pay, from highest to lowest. The 
percentage of men and women is calculated for 
each pay band. 

The proportion of women employed across 
Pelican is nearly 60% which is broadly reflected 
in the upper middle quartile.  

The top quartile shows a fairly even distribution 
of men and women fulfilling roles at a senior pay 
level whilst the lower middle quartile shows a 
completely even gender split.  

The lower quartile is less representative of the 
wider gender split, but is due to a relatively small 
number of men in our contact centre and 
administrative roles. 

How we will improve our 
gender pay further  

We are #proud that Pelican has a low gender pay gap.  
In the last three years we’ve been delivering a range of 
initiatives that have helped us to improve gender 
diversity.  

We want to continue this in the future and do even 
more to ensure that Pelican is a great place to work 
and that our team members continue to be 
compensated fairly and equally. 

 

Compensation strategy 
We have a structured and transparent framework for 
front line team members, which provides standardised 
starting salaries and incremental salary progression 
within their first 36 months in role, and beyond. We 
will continue with our annual salary review process 
where team members can share in the success of the 
company and increases are made without reference to 
gender. 

 

 

 

 

Recruitment 

We attract and hire the best talent to ensure we 
continue to deliver award winning customer service to 
our clients and in turn their customers.  

Our managers are trained on the best recruitment and 
selection methods to ensure our recruitment decisions 
are objective and free from bias. We will continue to 
focus on ensuring our vacancies are widely published, 
both internally and externally, to help us attract new 
team members from across the community. 

 

Page 4 

 

 

60% of our workforce are female 

 

 

Leadership Development 

We pride ourselves on our ability to recognise and 
encourage our team members to reach their 
potential. We have introduced a bespoke 
management development programme that is 
tailored to meet the leadership needs of our 
business.   The programme has helped enable 
change, grown our peoples’ capability and 
supported a more motivating and engaging working 
environment.   

 

Engagement 

Our people are our most valuable resource and we 
strive to demonstrate this.  Twice a year we run our 
ISay survey, our internal employee engagement 
survey.  This provides our team members with their 
opportunity to have their say about our business, 
including a dedicated section on reward and 
recognition.  We are delighted to have consistently 
high employee engagement scores.  Our 
commitment to team member engagement is 
steadfast and we intend to continue to deliver 
initiatives that benefit our people. 

 

 

 

 

 

Career progression 

We are passionate about developing the people who 
work with us and have a wide range of tools to support 
team members in progressing their careers with Pelican.  
In 2016 we introduced an ‘Aspiring Leaders’ 
programme, aimed at complementing our existing suite 
of development solutions for all team members. 

The focus has been on helping our people make the 
transition into leadership roles and in the last year 
alone, over 20 team members have progressed into 
deputy team leader roles.  Our employee engagement 
score is currently sitting at 89.6%, something we are 
determined to maintain! 

 

Diversity and inclusion 

At #TeamPelican, we welcome a diverse range of 
people, talent and ideas, and advocate the promotion 
of flexible working. We support working parents via our 
suite of family friendly policies and through our working 
parents group.  

 

With the assistance of our occupational health team, we 
are committed to making adjustments that enable our 
team members to continue working and have equal 
opportunity, fair treatment and a safe working place. 

 

 

 

 

Page 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Pelican Business Services 
1 Clevedon Walk 
Nailsea 
BS48 1WA 
T +44 (0) 1225 524111  
E hello@pelicanbusinessservices.co.uk  
W www.pelicanbusinessservices.co.uk 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Page 6 

