Issue 1 - November 2017 - Page 1 of 3 

 

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Gender Pay legislation requires employees with 250 or more employees to publish statistics to show the 
‘pay gap’ between male and female employees. 

This is different to equal pay.  We are confident that our Salary Banding and Job Evaluation systems mean 
that men and women doing the same or a similar job are paid the same. These systems are gender     
neutral and the job rather than the person is assessed according to a number of objective criteria. 

This is a snap shot of pay taken on 5th April 2017. 

 

Pay gap: 

 

 

 

 

Pay Gap 

Mean 

25.5% 

Median 

10.5% 

Our workforce profile has a significant effect on our pay gap,  particularly in the top quartile of the 
organisation (Senior Managers are mostly men). 

 

 

 

Men make up 76% of our workforce and women 24%.   

At a senior management level men make up 88% of our workforce and women 12% 

If we break down the work force in to quartiles, it is clear that the pay gap in quartiles 1,2 and 3 are very 
close with women being paid more than men in the 2nd quartile. 

The pay gap in the 4th quartile reflects the higher proportion of men in senior positions. 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean 

Median 

Pay Gap 1st Quartile 

Pay Gap 2nd Quartile 

Pay Gap 3rd Quartile 

2.5% 

-4.4% 

0.6% 

Pay Gap 4th Quartile 

11.9% 

8.7% 

-8.2% 

0.3% 

10.5% 

Issue 1 - November 2017 - Page 2 of 3 

 

 

Bonus gap: 

 

 

 

 

 

Bonus Gap 

Mean 

36.2% 

Median 

25% 

Proportion of people awarded a bonus in 2016 

An equal % of men and women received a bonus for work done in 2016. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

92.6% 

 

 

 

 

 92.6%  

The bonus gap is also influenced by a higher proportion of men at a senior management level. 

 

Summary: 

In order to attract the best talent, we know that we need to work hard to be attractive to 100% of the 

population.  Our gender pay gap shows us that we are missing out on a vital resource – women. 

Historically manufacturing and engineering have been very male dominated professions and at Chemring 
Countermeasures we are trying our best to attract the best talent from both genders.  

 

What are we doing to close the gap? 

We are an employer sponsor of the University Technical College (UTC South Wilts) in Salisbury and we 
encourage and support work experience and apprenticeship applications from both women and girls.  
We support through advice, time and governance. 

Issue 1 - November 2017 - Page 3 of 3 

 

 

We are growing our relationships at UTC South Wilts showcasing STEM (Science, Technical, Engineering 
and Mathematical) careers and are getting involved in employer-led projects within the curriculum.  This 
is highlighting our female engineers and making them visible as role models to further encourage work 
experience and gap year placements from female students. 

We are taking on Year in Industry Students in STEM subjects, encouraging girls to learn from our female 
role models. 

We are planning to hold unconscious bias training for all of our managers, in order to ensure that our 
managers are not influenced by stereotypical views within recruitment, development, promotion and 

succession planning. 

We will identify high potential female employees and give them support to move within the organisation 
into more senior positions. 

