BMC Software Limited
U.K. Gender Pay Gap
Report 2017

WHAT’S IN THIS REPORT  

1.   The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of our male and female employees in April 2017  

  (including base pay, allowances and bonus);

2.   The difference between the median hourly rate of pay of our male and female employees for the same period;

3.   The difference in the mean bonus pay to male employees and mean bonus pay to female employees in the  

  12 months up to April 2017. This includes all bonuses, long-term incentives, and sales bonus payments. 

4.   The difference in the median bonus pay to all male employees and median bonus pay to female employees  

  in the same period;

5.   The proportion of male and female employees who received bonus pay in that 12 month period; and 

6.   The proportion of male and female employees across our workforce according to salary quartile bands.

I can confirm that these are accurate.

Arno ter Avest 
BMC Software Ltd.

In accordance with the U.K. legislation, these calculations are based on individuals employed by BMC Software Limited as of 5 April 2017. 
For the purposes of the figures at (1), (2) and (6) only, and in accordance with the legislation, this is limited to employees receiving full pay on that date.  

MEAN AND MEDIAN COMPARED 

Mean 
The mean is calculated by adding up the total pay of employees 
and dividing by the number of employees. This calculation is 
completed separately for male and female and the totals are 
compared. While useful, this ‘true average’ is easily skewed by  
a small number of high or low earners. Reporting both mean and 
median figures provides a more rounded appreciation of the data.

Median 
The median is the number which is in the middle of a ranking of 
pay from lowest to highest. This is broadly understood to be the 
best representation of ‘typical’ pay as extremes of low and high 
pay do not affect the median.

 

U.K. GENDER PAY GAP
BMC Software Limited 

Overall Results

Pay gap

Bonus gap

Bonus participation rate

Mean

34.6%

57.1%

Male

90%

Median

37.4%

67.1%

Female

88%

The salary figures used in the calculations are before any deductions have been made in respect of salary sacrifice.

0303

GENDER PAY GAP  
CONTRIBUTING FACTORS

The gender pay gap as defined in the U.K.’s Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 is the measure 
of the difference between all male and all female employees’ 
hourly pay and bonus earnings. The gender pay gap should  
not be confused with ‘equal pay’ (or ‘pay equity’). Equal  
pay is the legal requirement to pay men and women performing 
the same or similar work at the same rate. This has been  
a requirement in the U.K. for over 40 years, and it is an area on 
which we have focused heavily in the past and continue to do so. 

The gender pay gap reflects the fact that there are fewer women 
in senior positions, fewer women within the technology sector 
generally, and fewer women in specialist positions that carry  
a premium in the market. More senior positions attract higher 
levels of bonus and share-based pay which is why the bonus gap 
reported is larger than the pay gap. 

It also reflects the make-up of BMC Software Limited’s (BMC) 
workforce, which is heavily dominated by sales and highly 
specialized technical roles. The company’s corporate headquarters 
is in the U.S., where the majority of corporate and executive roles 
are based. We believe the nature of the work undertaken within 

our U.K. office contributes to our pay gap, in particular the 
bonus gap, given the commission schemes used to incentivise 
these employees. Our increased focus on gender balance across 
the workforce will help to reduce this gap. 

(cid:25)(cid:31)(cid:31)%

(cid:26)(cid:31)%

(cid:27)(cid:31)%

(cid:28)(cid:31)%

(cid:29)(cid:31)%

(cid:31)%

Quartiles Analysis

(cid:31)(cid:30)
(cid:29)(cid:28)(cid:28)%(cid:26)

Pay gap
(cid:19)(cid:19)
(cid:29)(cid:19)(cid:24)%(cid:26)

(cid:21)
(cid:29)(cid:19)(cid:25)%(cid:26)

(cid:30)
(cid:29)(cid:31)%(cid:26)

(cid:28)(cid:25)
(cid:29)(cid:24)(cid:23)%(cid:26)

(cid:23)(cid:30)
(cid:29)(cid:22)(cid:24)%(cid:26)

(cid:21)(cid:21)
(cid:29)(cid:20)(cid:25)%(cid:26)

(cid:21)(cid:25)
(cid:29)(cid:20)(cid:21)%(cid:26)

Bottom quartile

(cid:10)rd quartile

(cid:29)nd quartile

Top quartile

Female  

 

 

 Male

0404
04

MOVING FORWARD

At BMC we recognise that hiring people from diverse backgrounds 
helps to broaden our organisation’s skillset and is critical for 
improving the innovation and performance of our business. Our 
employees are already required to undertake diversity training, 
and we intend to increase the level of diversity training given to 
our staff, with a particular focus on reducing unconscious bias 
both at recruitment stage and throughout employment.  

“

We are focused on attracting, 
retaining and developing 
talented women in our  
“
U.K. business. 

Increasing the number of women across our business and in 
particular in our more senior positions will significantly help us 
to close the gender pay gap. This is an industry-wide issue and 
we recognise it will take time and significant effort across the 
organisation to achieve this aim.  
 

On a local U.K. level, we are involved in the ‘Learning to Work’ scheme 
which involves us working with local schools to introduce pupils to 
BMC and the technology industry, and one of our key goals in this 
initiative has been to attract more females into the technology sector 
from an early age. 

Some key members of BMC’s team have become STEM Ambassadors, 
helping to promote science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
among students. Within these programmes, some initiatives have been 
specifically targeted at attracting females to the technology sector. 

BMC’s Women in Technology and Business employee group gives 
women employees opportunities for leadership development and 
BMC’s Women in Technology and Business employee group gives 

 05
05

We are committed to addressing the gender imbalance within 
our business and we believe that will have a positive impact upon 
reducing our existing pay gap.

BMC’s Women in Technology and Business employee group gives 
women employees opportunities for leadership development and 
networking. We are also diversity sponsor for the Women in I.T. 
Awards and are committed to supporting and encouraging women 
in what has, to date, been a male-dominant sector. Our position as 
diversity sponsor allows us to see how others in our industry are 
addressing the gender pay challenge, helping us to generate ideas  
and keeping us informed of current trends and thought leadership. 

Whilst we recognise that a more balanced gender workforce may 
not happen immediately, we are committed to fostering employment 
opportunities that assist in furthering equal opportunities for all 
individuals, irrespective of gender, race, colour, age, or any other 
protected characteristic, and to creating a culture and environment 
that enables all employees to realise their full potential and maximize 
their contribution. 

This includes supporting maternity-returners back to work and 
offering flexible working. Over two-thirds of our employees work 
flexibly, and we provide a digital workplace powered by technology 
and tools that facilitate flexible working. In 2016, BMC was recognized 
by Forbes as a top-100 company for remote jobs.

 06
06

BMC is a global leader in innovative software solutions that enable businesses to transform into digital 
enterprises for the ultimate competitive advantage. Our Digital Enterprise Management solutions are designed 
to fast track digital business from mainframe to mobile to cloud and beyond.

BMC, BMC Software, the BMC logo, and the BMC Software logo, and all other BMC Software product and service names are owned by BMC Software, Inc. 
and are registered or pending registration in the US Patent and Trademark Office or in the trademark offices of other countries. All other trademarks belong 
to their respective companies. © Copyright 2018 BMC Software, Inc.

*000000*

