Bright Blue Foods Ltd

2017

Gender Pay Gap

Report

BBF Ltd UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
BBF is one of the UK’s leading ambient cake and chilled desserts 
manufacturers of retailer own label, licenced and branded cakes.
As an employer with over 250 employees, we are required by law to 
carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender 
Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
We are pleased to report that the gender pay gap within BBF 
demonstrates our commitment to fostering an inclusive environment 
and emphasising equal opportunity for all our employees. BBF 
recognises that diversity within our workforce significantly 
contributes to our business performance and in making BBF a great 
place to work. We will remain committed to closing the gap further, 
particularly in our upper middle quartile over the next few years.

Our gender pay data
Whilst we have 350 employees in Poland and 1000 employees in our 
recently acquired cakes and desserts facility in Hull, this report 
summarises our Gender Pay Gap (the difference in average earnings 
between men and women across all roles) based upon the 334 male 
and 140 female relevant employees employed within BBF UK on 5 
April 2017.
To help explain the data, it is important to understand that 77.6% of 
roles within our business are based in our bakeries, the teams are 
paid the same rate according to their job role, with no difference 
between men and women. Of the bakery based roles 73.4% of 
employees are male, compared to 61% in our office environments.

Our Gender Pay Statistics

Mean pay gap

Median pay gap
BAKING

BBF Limited 

4.9%

1.8%
GREAT

The gender pay gap within BBF is significantly lower than 
the UK national mean average, 12.3% and the UK national 
median average, 10.6% (as at 01/03/2018 gov.uk).

In 2017 

there were 
no bonuses 
awarded to 

men or 
women 

Pay quartiles – proportion of employees from each gender in each pay quartile

Upper Quartile

31.5%

Upper Middle Quartile
13.9%

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

38.0%

31.8%

68.5%

Male

Female

86.1%

Male

Female

62.0%

68.2%

Male

Female

Male

Female

In all quartiles more men are employed than women, whilst a gender pay gap is evident in each quartile it is proportionate to
this, with the exception of the upper middle quartile. Our analysis of this shows that the gap in this quartile is mainly driven
by;
• Career and lifestyle choice – our male colleagues are more likely to choose to work shifts at times which attract premium 

• A lower proportion of females than men are employed in the higher hourly paid bakery roles – skilled operative & team 

rates of pay.

leader roles.

Next steps

Whilst we are well ahead of the national average there still remains a gender pay gap within BBF, 
particularly within the higher hourly paid bakery roles. Through the continuation of the actions 
below our leadership team are committed to reducing the current gender pay gap.

Recruitment & 

Retention Strategy 

• BBF are committed to attracting, recruiting & 
retaining the best talent for the business, ensuring 
gender is never a factor in decisions. 

Opportunity for all

• We will ensure that opportunities are available for 
all, based on aptitude and ability.

Enabling flexibility

• We will continue to build an inclusive culture,  
supporting and promoting flexible working where 
possible. 

We confirm that the information reported 

is accurate and in accordance with the 

Equality Act 2010 (Gender Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017

Jonathan Lill

Chief Executive Officer        

