Telepeformance UK Ltd
Gender Pay Gap Report
Published March 2018

Teleperformance UK
Gender Pay Gap Report

 

 

Pay Gap

Hourly Fixed Pay

Difference between Men & Women

Mean

4.1%

Median

-1.0%

The table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date (i.e. 5 April 2017). It also captures the mean 
and median difference between bonuses paid to men and women at Teleperformance UK in the year up to 5 April 2017, i.e. for the 2016 performance year.

Pay Quartiles

45%

55%

50%

50%

50%

50%

48%

52%

Lowest

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Highest

Male

Female

Bonus Gap

Bonus Paid

Mean
12.2%

Median
-5.1%

Proportion of colleagues awarded a bonus for 2016

Male
28%

Female
30%

Received a Bonus

Did not receive a Bonus

All data based on the guidelines set by the Government Equalities Office with data valid at 5th April 2017.

Teleperformance UK
Gender Pay Gap Report

 

 

“Encouraging diversity is in the DNA of Teleperformance. We always seek to promote men and women 
equally, striving to be fair, inclusive and transparent. Teleperformance takes seriously its responsibility as a 
global brand to ensure that equality of opportunity and reward underpin our employment practices.”
- Matt Sims, CEO

“Teleperformance is truly representative of organisations that appoint and promote based on its values; 
Integrity, Respect, Innovation, Professionalism and Commitment.  These are our only differentiators and 
opportunity is open to everyone who passionately wishes to serve our Clients and their Customers with 
reward and recognition being entirely agnostic of gender.”
- Jackie Lowe, COO

“The values of Teleperformance UK are representative of our global organisation in that we see the 
promotion of diversity as our standard. While the results of  our first gender pay gap report help 
demonstrate these values are  embedded across our organisation, we will continue to maintain focus  
and also continue to assess the gender balance across all teams and levels within our organisation. As 
Teleperformance are effectively an extension of our client’s operations, our existing and new clients should 
be reassured from the report that Teleperformance are acting in a way that represents their own targets for 
gender pay balance”
- Karl Wise, Chief Financial Officer

“Teleperformance are passionate about promoting and fostering everybody’s right to be different and to 
be valued as an individual. Diversity in the workplace is important because it recognises the differences 
between people and acknowledges that these differences are a valued asset to any business.” 
- Rachel Robinson, EVP Public Sector Services

I am pleased that Teleperformance compares favourably with its competitors in terms of gender pay. But that is not a cause for 
complacency. Our commitment to diversity requires constant vigilance and openness. It is unwavering.

Matt Sims, 
CEO, Teleperformance UK & South Africa

