Gender Pay Report 2018 
MB Aerospace Newton Abbot Limited 

April 2018 

Gender Pay Report – MB Aerospace Newton Abbot Limited  
Directors’ Statement 

Directors’ Statement 

Here at MB Aerospace, Newton Abbot we aim to ensure that all our employees are treated fairly, with respect and dignity 
without exception. This includes making sure that everyone is fully trained to do their job effectively and safely and able to 
meet the exacting standards demanded by the Aerospace industry. We do this by regular audits and interacting with our 
employees in many ways so that everyone understands what is required of them and just as importantly what their concerns 
and development needs are. We offer fully supported career development plans for anyone who wishes to progress and this 
can range from on the job coaching to fully supported degrees.  
  
Diversity and inclusion are central to our business success and we strive to build a culture where people can be themselves and 
work in a supportive environment regardless of their gender or any other attribute or choice.  
  

 We have understood and promoted equality in in all our business activities for very many years and have developed policies and procedures to 
support our genuinely held belief that this is not only the right and proper thing to do but also makes sound business sense. Nevertheless, we do 
have a gender pay gap which we are pleased to say is somewhat lower than the national average and considered low for a manufacturing 
organisation primarily involved in precision engineering. There are two main reasons for this gap; fewer women in leadership roles and the difficulty 
in attracting females to highly skilled engineering positions.  
  
We are already working to address this imbalance by working with local schools, colleges and our local University Technical College, of which we are 
a founding partner, to encourage young female students to take an interest in STEM subjects and how this can lead to a rewarding and highly 
successful career in engineering. 
  
I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report is accurate and has been produced in accordance with the guidance on managing 
gender pay as required by the UK Government. 
  
Tony Wiltshire Director MB Aerospace, Newton Abbot, March 2018 

 

 

Page 2 

© 2018 MB Aerospace – Confidential & Proprietary 

Gender Pay Report – MB Aerospace Newton Abbot Limited  
Statutory Public Data 

Public Information 

The regulations require Companies with more than 250 employees on 5 
April 2017 to publish details of their gender pay gap in the format 
below. MB Aerospace, Newton Abbot employed 487 people at the time 
this data was collected. 
 
 
 
Male Employees  
 
 
Female Employees 
 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap 
 
 
Median Gender Pay Gap 
 
Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
 
 
Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap   
Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment   
Proportion of females receiving a bonus payment 
 
This data shows that 9.7% of our workforce are female and that our 
Mean Gender Pay Gap is 6.4% 
 
This table below  shows how the proportion of females is broken down 
into each pay quartile as required by the regulations. 
 

90.3% 
9.7% 
6.4% 
8.6% 
-11% 
0% 
93.1% 
89.8% 

This data indicates that the proportion of females in higher paid 
positions is lower than that of those in lower paid positions and this 
creates a gender pay gap despite us having robust equal pay policies in 
place for many years. In order to reduce the gap, we are working hard 
to encourage female employees to develop their engineering and 
leadership skills in order to equip them for more senior positions. 
 
This can be difficult for many reasons not least of which is encouraging 
females to develop their STEM skills and choose Engineering as a 
worthwhile, satisfying and rewarding career. We do this through 
individual career development and working with local educational 
establishments to demonstrate that the work we do is just as rewarding 
for females as it is males and that there is no reason why a female 
engineer cannot progress to the most senior levels of the organisation. 
 
We also recognise that very many of our employees have family 
commitments, not just females and support them through a 
comprehensive set of family friendly policies where we try and be as 
flexible as we can in recognising how important family responsibilities 
are. 
 
We are sure that by following our ethos of Continuous Improvement 
along the lines stated we will be able to succeed in our aim of reducing 
the gender pay gap further. 

Page 3 

© 2018 MB Aerospace – Confidential & Proprietary 

Quartile      Men Women Quartile Total  Male % Female %             Upper: 75-100% of full-pay relevant employees  113 8 121  93.4% 6.6% Upper middle: 50-75% of full-pay relevant employees  114 8 122  93.4% 6.6% Lower middle: 25-50% of full-pay relevant employees  107 15 122  87.7% 12.3% Lower: 0-25% of full-pay relevant employees  106 16 122  86.9% 13.1%  