 

 

 

Parliamentary Digital Service 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Introduction  
As Director of the Parliamentary Digital Service, I am pleased to publish our gender pay gap figures under 
the new reporting requirements. Our data reveals that, unusually, the Parliamentary Digital Service has a 
gender pay gap which favours women. 

I am proud to lead an organisation which is committed to ensuring equality and diversity in staff, 
including gender equality. We have significantly more men than women working here but we are making 
great progress in attracting women to take up roles with us which, the data shows, are more likely to be 
at a senior level.  We pay fairly across both genders. 

We recognise that there is far more to be done, in particular to make sure women are well-represented 
at all levels and around the bonus pay gap. We want to continue to build a supportive and inclusive 
workplace where our staff are able to work flexibly supported by tangible policies to help them such as 
shared parental leave. We are also mindful that gender inequality is only part of the picture and must 
be tackled alongside other factors which have an impact on equality of opportunity in the workplace.  

As part of Parliament, the Digital Service should be leading the way in offering equal opportunities for  
all staff, and so I am delighted that this first set of gender pay data is so encouraging for women in 
our organisation.   

 

 

 
Tracey Jessup 
Director of the Parliamentary Digital Service 

 

1 

 

Parliamentary Digital Service Pay gap figures 
In 2017 the government introduced new legislation which means that organisations employing more than 
250 people must publish their gender pay gap figures yearly. The gender pay gap is the difference 
between the average earnings of men and women in the organisation.   

The Parliamentary Digital Service is a joint department of both Houses of Parliament, providing digital 
services to staff and Members of both Houses and Members’ staff, and helping to make Parliament 
digital-first. At April 2017 we employed 376 people working across a range of roles.   

As a separate employing body to the House of Commons and House of Lords, we are required to report 
and publish our own gender pay gap figures.  The data is based on a ‘snapshot’ of employees taken 
on 5 April 2017, when the gender divide amongst our staff was 34.57% women and 65.43% men. 

Our data shows that women in the Parliamentary Digital Service are paid on average slightly more  
than men.   

 

 

 

65.43% of our all 
workforce are men 

50% of our most 
senior staff (SCS) 

 are men 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

34.57% of all our 

workforce are women 

50% of our most senior 

staff (SCS)  
are women 

 

What is a gender pay gap? 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and women, expressed 
relative to men’s earnings. Organisations are required to publish: 

•  Mean gender pay gap (%); 
•  Median gender pay gap (%); 
•  Proportion of males and females in each quartile band (%).  
•  Mean bonus pay gap (%);  
•  Median bonus pay gap (%); 
•  Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment (%).  

 

2 

 

Parliamentary Digital Service Pay Gap Data 
The mean and median figures for pay show that women’s hourly pay is on average 5.21% higher than 
men’s average hourly pay.  Our data additionally shows that women are better represented across the 
senior pay grades. However, it is clear from the figures that there is more to be done, in particular around 
gender distribution in more junior roles 

 

 

 

 

Median Pay gap: -4.16% 

 

Mean Pay Gap: -5.21% 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

The Proportion of Our Male and Female Employees in Each Pay Quartile 

 

3 

27%73%38%62%41%59%32%68% 

 
 
 
Parliamentary Digital Service bonus gap data 

Our data on bonus payments is more complex.  Figures show that a higher percentage of women than 
men receive bonus payments but that the average bonus is 42.65% higher for men than for women. The 
median difference is lower at 39.01%, however the data includes a variety of one-off payments which 
may not traditionally be considered bonuses. The figures include a variety of lump-sum pay awards 
(resulting from changes to pay across all staff rated as fully-effective), recognition awards (including £25 
vouchers awarded to staff for good work) as well as performance bonuses paid to staff in the Senior 
Commons (SCS) pay bands. 

A voluntary disclosure about bonus payments made to the most senior staff of the Parliamentary Digital 
Service in the Senior Commons Service (SCS) pay bands has been combined with bonus payments made 
to SCS employees in the House of Commons in the House of Commons gender pay report.  The 
Parliamentary Digital Service use the same pay policies as the House of Commons and decisions about 
senior pay for both employers are made by the Senior Remuneration Committee of the House of 
Commons Commission. 

What do these figures mean? 
These figures show that, unlike many organisations, the Parliamentary Digital Service has a gender pay 
gap which favours women. This is because a women working in the Digital Service are likely to be working 
at a higher level, with just 27% of our women in the lower pay quartile.  

The proportion of staff who are women in the Parliamentary Digital Service is much higher than the 
technology industry average of 22%. But compared to employers in non-technology sectors, particularly 
our closest comparators the House of Commons and House of Lords, we have significantly more male 
employees, with 65.43% compared to 55.4% and 51% respectively. 

Women are well-represented on the Senior Management Team where five out of 12 senior team 
members are women and at the most senior SCS level four out of eight are women, including the Director 
of the Parliamentary Digital Service Tracey Jessup.   

The Parliamentary Digital Service is committed to ensuring equality and diversity in our organisation, 
including gender equality. We worked with Equal Approach on an inclusion audit of our recruitment 
process to identify and remove any barriers to female and diverse talent. Our Women in Digital event last 
year focused on recruiting more women into digital roles by looking at transferable skills and recruiting 
for potential; this approach has helped us to attract and recruit more women. Over the last year our 
successful job candidates have been almost equal numbers of men and women, with 52 women and 67 
men starting new roles with us.  

More broadly, our staff work under the terms and conditions of the House of Commons who have set 
ambitious objectives for ensuring equality within the workplace. The House of Commons are a London 
living wage employer, rated as the 23rd best UK employer in the Stonewall workplace equality index and 
have a silver disability standard accreditation. In 2015/16, the Speaker established an advisory group to 
look into the recruitment and retention of BAME staff within the House of Commons and Parliamentary 
Digital Service workforce and we are now listed by Business in the Community as one of the UK’s best 

 

4 

 

employers for BAME people. Our excellent Workplace Equality Networks (including ParliGender, which 
works to promote gender equality in Parliament) mean we have taken significant strides to achieving a 
more equal work environment. 

However, we recognise that there is more to be done. Gender pay gap data reveals only part of the 
picture, and we recognise that whilst our GPG information is encouraging, we must not be complacent.  

 

5 

