 Gender Pay Gap Report
2017

Date 

April 2018 

Version 

1.0  

Gender Pay Gap Report

Spark44 is a different kind of advertising agency. Results count, but people matter.  
We want to attract and retain the best of talent to keep us from ever being just 
business as usual.

For the first time UK companies with over 250 staff have to report on their gender  
pay gap. We believe that this is an important step forward. 

If all companies are transparent about pay and will commit to working towards both 
identifying and addressing the root causes of pay gaps, they can find the solutions 
they need to build businesses that both reflect society and are able to make the most 
of all of the talents of their workforce.

This is the approach we are taking at Spark44. We know that no business can close 
its gender pay gap overnight, but we are taking action to make meaningful progress 
on reducing the gaps over the long term. We are passionate about ensuring everyone, 
regardless of their background, race, ethnicity or gender, has an equal opportunity to 
thrive at Spark44.

We know that we have made Spark44 a great place to work – that’s why our staff 
turnover rate is 16% lower than in the advertising industry generally – but there is 
always room for improvement and we’re committed to doing more. 

Ali McManus 
 Global HR Director

2

GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING

Gender pay gap reporting is a new obligation placed on organisations which have 250  
or more employees. It aims to help reduce the ongoing pay gap between men and women 
in the workplace, by enabling employers to analyse the pay situation within their own 
workforce, understand any underlying causes for a gender pay gap and take steps to 
address it.

Specifically, employers need to publish six figures: their mean and median hourly pay  
gap; their mean and median bonus pay gap; the proportions of men and women receiving 
bonuses; and the number of men and women in each of four pay quartiles. These figures 
must be calculated using a specific reference date each year, which is 5 April.

‘Mean’ and ‘median’ are both types of average, but they work in slightly different ways  
and are calculated as follows: 

How we calculate median difference
Lowest hourly pay

Median hourly pay

Highest hourly pay

£

££

£

£

£

The difference = Median pay gap

£

£

£

£

£

How we calculate mean difference

£

££

£

££

£

££

Number 
of female 
employees

Mean female 
average pay

The difference = Mean hourly pay gap

Number 
of male 
employees

Mean male 
average pay

3

THE HEADLINE STATISTICS

The gender split for our office leadership community is 50:50, both in the UK and 
globally. In the UK, we have two offices, based in London and Birmingham. Across these 
two locations, we employed 431 staff on 5 April 2017, with the following gender spilt:

 
 
 
 
 

194 / 45%

237 / 55%

 
Our reportable statistics are shown below. 

Male versus Female Mean and Median Gender Pay Gaps versus ONS (Office for 
National Statistics) Comparison.

 

Median pay gap

ONS Great 

Britain median

Mean pay gap

ONS Great 
Britain mean

+12%

+18.8%

+24.2%

+17.7%

At 12.0% our median gender pay gap is lower than the UK median of 18.8%, whilst at 
24.2% our mean gender pay gap is higher than the UK mean of 17.7%

Male: Female Pay Analysis – By Quartile

 

Lowest

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

49.5%

50.5%

44.4%

55.6%

57.4%

42.6%

28.7%

71.3%

To get a ‘pay quartile’, you rank your male and female employees from lowest hourly rate 
of pay to highest hourly rate of pay; divide the list into four sections (called quartiles) 
with an equal number of employees in each section (ensuring an even split for those with 
the same hourly rate); and then express the proportion of male and female employees in 
each quartile band.

4

Percentage of our Male and Female Staff Receiving Bonus Pay

88.7%

85.7%

Our percentage of female employees receiving a bonus exceeds that of male employees 
by 3%.

We believe that addressing the gender pay gap is an important issue that needs real 
action. But we also know that there is not one simple answer. Gaps cannot be closed 
overnight and not all of the solutions may be within Spark44’s control. 

DEMOGR APHICS IMPACT SPARK44’S GAPS

Our analysis shows that our pay gap is influenced by the demographic breakdown of  
our workforce: 55% of our UK workforce is male. Spark44 also has a higher number of 
men (78%) than women (22%) in senior executive roles based in the UK, with low levels 
of natural attrition at this level. We aim to address this by committing to the following:

Global Female Executives

UK Female Executives

Currently 20%

50% by 2022

Currently 22%

50% by 2022

In non-senior roles, our mean and median pay gaps are 18.1% and 11.2% respectively,  
with similar respective mean and median bonus gaps of 27.6% and 15.5%.

We’ve calculated that if we achieved a 50:50 gender mix in our UK Executive Team,  
our mean pay gap across the whole business would reduce to 11.6% and our median pay 
gap would fall to 8.6%. There would be similar reductions in our mean and median bonus 
gaps, falling to 15.8% and 12.9% respectively.

5

Research has found that in order to make meaningful progress on gender parity and 
encourage the next generation to the top, companies must set expectations that all 
leaders are responsible for encouraging and developing female talent. This is the 
approach we take at Spark44. Through our annual talent mapping process, we ask 
senior managers at Spark44 to champion the talents and abilities of all of our rising 
stars in the business. We will be looking at how we can develop this further through 
introducing a female leadership network to foster and develop female talent to create 
more opportunities for women to reach the top.

We know we need to do more to inspire more women into advertising and support them 
throughout their careers so that they can flourish. We are taking action to ensure that, 
over the long term, our junior talent of today will become our senior leaders and female 
role models of tomorrow.

RECRUITMENT

We won’t close the gender pay gap until we are able to get more senior women into  
the business.

We are looking at how we can reach out to more women by broadening our external 
recruitment campaigns and working with our recruitment partners so that adverts  
will be visible to a larger number of women.

We use a competency framework during interview, which is driven by the specific 
and objective skills needed for the role and allows candidates to demonstrate their 
transferable skills. Competencies can be gathered across all areas of life, not just at 
work; we encourage candidates to showcase their full potential, regardless of their 
career history and background.

WORK AND FAMILY LIFE

We recognise that the challenges of parenthood can disrupt both men’s and women’s 
careers. We think that starting a family shouldn’t be a penalty on your career and want 
to keep hold of the talented women that we have in our workplace. 

6

We strive to make Spark44 a place where parents want to work. We operate a childcare 
voucher scheme (with access to emergency childcare for whoever needs it). We have 
a permanently designated private room for new mothers to express and for expectant 
mothers to rest and an employee assistance program to help provide whatever support 
our staff may need. Wherever possible, we support part-time and flexible working 
requests. We believe this approach has contributed to the positive number of our female 
staff (75%) returning to work following maternity leave. 

UK

Returned Full Time Returned Part Time

Didn’t Return

50%

25%

25%

Birmingham

Returned Full Time Returned Part Time

Didn’t Return

66.7%

0%

33.3%

London

Returned Full Time Returned Part Time

Didn’t Return

0%

100%

0%

 
To make sure Spark44 continues to be a great place for parents to work – both mums 
AND dads – we are going further.

From January 2018, we have improved our maternity benefits. Those with over 1 years’ 
service now receive 12 weeks’ full pay (up from 6 weeks at 90% average earnings),  
whilst those with over 2 years’ service now receive 26 weeks full pay (up from 12 weeks). 

Equalising the gender pay gap isn’t just about getting more women into senior positions. 
It’s also about rebalancing family life by giving men a greater opportunity to play 
a bigger role. This is why we have also raised our shared parental leave pay to the 
same level as maternity pay. We know that unless this is standard across not just the 
advertising industry, but the economy generally, few men will want (or be financially 
able) to take shared parental leave and primary childcare responsibilities will continue  
to fall on women. We want to change this. 

We will continue to do our bit, but cannot do it all by ourselves. Industry and Government 
must continue to do more to help working parents address the challenges they face.

7

FAIR, EQUAL AND TR ANSPARENT PAY 

We’re confident that our gender pay gap is not an equal pay issue; we pay the same 
salary for the same job. 

We regularly analyse and monitor the levels of our pay and also the pay setting 
procedures. We make sure our male and female staff are treated fairly and equally.

Bonuses are awarded according to clear criteria through a transparent process. 
Nevertheless, we take nothing for granted at Spark44 and we will be looking at whether 
it is possible to improve upon this process to give clearer guidance to those responsible 
for awarding bonuses.

When it comes to making decisions about pay, we understand that, even in the most 
objective of processes, biases can creep in. That’s why we are looking to provide 
unconscious bias training to all staff, including those with any responsibility for pay 
setting. We are committed to taking bold action to keep Spark44 a great place to work.

SPARK44 IS TACKLING THIS ISSUE

We at Spark44 are committed to ensuring that we have a diverse and inclusive workplace 
where women can maintain successful career paths. 

The pay and bonus gaps show that there’s more work to be done. We are committed  
to identifying the causes of our gender pay gaps and working towards reducing them. 
We know that this is a long-term commitment. We will continue to drive these efforts  
to make Spark44 a place where even more women can thrive. 

 

 

 

 

Ali McManus 
 Global HR Director 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Ralf Specht 
Chief Executive Officer

 
 

8

