Jump To Content View Default Version View Accessible Version Jump to Site Map Menu Close Close Navigation Menu Type to Search L Brands. Press enter to go to results page. search results are available, use up and down arrow keys to navigate. search Clear the search field Home Our Company View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Our Company About Us Values Our Founder Heritage Our Brands View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Our Brands Victoria's Secret Bath & Body Works Pink La Senza Henri Bendel International View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot International Overview International Map Store Directory FAQ Responsibility View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Responsibility Community View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Community Community Annual Highlights Community Contact Recognition Community FAQ Volunteerism L Brands Foundation View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot L Brands Foundation L Brands Foundation International Giving Request Support View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Request Support What We Fund: Grant Criteria What We Do Not Fund Financial Grants Process Apply for Financial Support Request an In-Kind Donation Giving Programs View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Giving Programs Think Pink for Breast Cancer Pelotonia for Cancer Research United Way Supply Chain View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Supply Chain Supply Chain Working at L Brands Supplier Code of Conduct Compliance Program Partnering for Improvement Products California Transparancy Act Product Information View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Product Information Products Safety Testing Policies Resources & Partnerships Environment View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Environment Environment Footprint Paper and Forest Products Energy & Climate Waste Reduction & Recycling Affliations Recognition Water View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Water Water Overview Manufacturing Conservation Advocacy Inclusion View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Inclusion Inclusion Talent Community & Philanthropy Associate Resource Groups Partners Supplier Diversity View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Supplier Diversity Supplier Diversity FAQ Investors View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Investors Financial Information View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Financial Information Press Releases Annual Reports & Proxy Sales & Earnings Comparable Store Sales Fundamentals Interactive Financial History Events & Presentations View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Events & Presentations Calendar Current Investor Handout Stock View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Stock Transfer Agent Direct Stock Purchase Plan Interactive Stock Chart Stock Splits & Dividends Cost Basis Calculator Stock Price Lookup Ownership Profile Analyst Coverage Governance View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Governance SEC Filings Executive Officers Board of Directors Committee Composition Contact the Board Code of Conduct Policies Investor Resources View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Investor Resources E-mail Alerts Investor FAQs Associates View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Associates General Information Values Code of Conduct Benefits View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Benefits Benefits Savings and Retirement Health & Welfare Benefits Lifestyle Hotlines Associates for Associates Giving Back Careers View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Careers About Us Working Here Career Areas College Programs Media View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Media Press Releases Resources View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Resources Brand Assets Annual Report Media Center Our Responses View Children Navigation Items right-carrot left-carrot Our Responses Burkina Faso Victoria's Secret Return Policy Our Bras are Safe L Brands / Three Limited Parkway Columbus, OH 43230 twitter youtube instagram Policies Supply Chain Terms and Conditions Site Map Contact Us This website is owned & hosted by NASDAQ. Home Investors Investor Overview Financial Info View Children Navigation Items Investors Financial Info Press Releases SEC Filings Annual Reports & Proxy Sales & Earnings Comparable Store Sales Fundamentals Interactive Financial History Events & Presentations View Children Navigation Items Investors Events & Presentations Calendar Current Earnings Presentation Current Investor Handout Investor Update Meeting Stock View Children Navigation Items Investors Stock Transfer Agent Direct Stock Purchase Plan Interactive Stock Chart Stock Splits & Dividends Cost Basis Calculator Stock Price Lookup Ownership Profile Analyst Coverage Governance View Children Navigation Items Investors Governance Executive Officers Board of Directors Committee Composition Contact the Board Code of Conduct Policies Investor Resources View Children Navigation Items Investors Investor Resources E-mail Alerts Investor FAQs Home / Investors / Governance / Governance Overview Governance Overview What We Stand For Limited Brands has long been recognized as a values-based organization. We are committed to building a culture that fosters mutual respect, open communication and sharing. As an enterprise, we have chosen to live our professional lives by this philosophy… we consistently try to do what’s right. This behavior manifests itself in how we treat each other, how we treat customers and how we support the communities in which we live and work. That’s what makes me so proud of the women and men who represent Limited Brands. Sincerely, Les Wexner Chairman & CEO Limited Brands Governance Quicklinks Executive Officers CEO/CFO Certifications Section 16 Reports Board of Directors Contact the Board Nominating and Governance Committee Charter Audit Committee Charter Compensation Committee Charter Our Values Associate Code of Conduct Code Violations & Reporting Related Person Transaction Policy Policy on Political Contributions U.K. Tax Statement Gender Pay Gap Report   Corporate Governance Principles Director Responsibilities. The Board oversees the management of the Corporation pursuant to the applicable requirements of Delaware and Federal law, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board also functions in accordance with the terms of the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. The Directors should be knowledgeable about and interested in the business of the Corporation, diligently review materials provided by management, prepare for and attend as many meetings as practicable, offer counsel and advice to management as required, and monitor the effectiveness of management and its strategies. Director Qualification Standards. A majority of the directors, and each member of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees, will be independent of management, as determined by the Board pursuant to the applicable standards of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board will be composed of members of diverse backgrounds who possess the integrity, judgment, skills, experience, and other characteristics that are deemed necessary or desirable for the effective performance of the Board's oversight function. The qualification of existing directors for continuing service or renomination may be affected by, among other things, the quality of their contributions, their attendance records, changes in their primary employment or other business affiliations, the number of boards of publicly held companies on which they serve, or other competing demands on their time and attention. Access to Management; Independent Advisors. Individual members of the Board shall have direct access to management. The Board and its committees shall have the authority to retain, at the Corporation's expense, their own independent advisors as they may deem appropriate. Compensation. The compensation of directors shall be evaluated by the Compensation Committee and approved by the Board from time to time after review of recommendations from the Compensation Committee. Code of Business Conduct; Other Policies. Directors are expected to comply with all applicable provisions of the Corporation's code of business conduct known as "What We Stand For." Directors are also expected to comply with all other applicable policies that may be adopted by the Corporation from time to time. The Audit Committee shall provide oversight of the Corporation's code of business conduct and compliance therewith. Conflicts of Interest. Directors are expected to avoid any action or relationship that creates, or creates the appearance of, a conflict between the Company's interests and their personal or immediate family's interests. Directors must make prompt, complete, and continuing disclosure of all facts relating to any actual or potential conflict to the Chair of the Audit Committee. The Chair will then consult with counsel and, as appropriate, the full Audit Committee, regarding the resolution of the matter in accordance with applicable law and the Corporation's policies. Director Orientation and Continuing Education. Newly elected directors will receive a formal orientation to the Corporation, to be designed and implemented under the supervision of the Nominating and Governance Committee. Existing directors will be encouraged, at the expense of the Corporation, to participate in such continuing education programs as the Nominating and Governance Committee shall recommend. Management Succession. The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for developing policies and principles governing management succession. At least annually, the Committee shall coordinate a process pursuant to which the Board of Directors (1) participates in the OLR (Organization Leadership Review), a review of the performance of senior management and succession planning with respect to senior leadership positions, and (2) reviews the Committee's contingency plans for CEO succession. Performance Evaluations of the Board and Individual Directors. The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for designing and conducting annual evaluations of the performance of the Board and its committees and of each individual director. Investor Relations Contact Information Location  L Brands, Inc. Three Limited Parkway Columbus, OH 43230  Contacts  Amie Preston Annamarie Schaeffer Kim Schiffmacher  Tel: 614-415-6400 option #1  Fax: 614-577-3366   InvestorRelations@lb.com   twitter instagram Investor Toolkit ir-print Print Page ir-email E-mail Page ir-alerts E-mail Alerts ir-contacts Contacts ir-reports Annual Reports Our Company Our Brands International Responsibility Investors Associates Careers Media lbrands Three Limited Parkway Columbus, OH 43230 Phone: 614-415-7000  twitter youtube instagram Policies Supply Chain Terms and Conditions Site Map Contact Us This website is owned & hosted by NASDAQ.