GENDER PAY REPORTING
March 2018

XX / CHAPTER TITLE 
ABOUT G&T 

 

 

2

4

GENDER PAY  
XX / CHAPTER TITLE 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 

 

                       6

4

 

UK  
 
Americas/Caribbean   
                      
 
Europe 
 
Middle East  
 
 
Asia 
 
 
Sustainability 
Listed Buildings 
 

 
 
G&T GENDER SPLIT 
 
 
 
PAY  
 
 
BONUSES 
XX /  CHAPTER TITLE 

 

31

4
8
   7
12
16
20
24
28

8

8

9

31
35
36
3

 

 
Europe 
 
PAY QUARTILES 
Americas / Caribbean 
 
 
Worldwide   
 
European	Alliance	Offices	
	
LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 

                      9

At G&T we strive to create a diverse, welcoming and meritocratic environment for 
all individuals to build their careers. We support the Government’s decision for firms 
to report their gender pay and bonus gaps. A consistent approach across UK business 
helps us all to benchmark our progress, assess how we are faring amongst our peers and 
identify opportunities for improvement. 

Our analysis has shown that when comparing like for like roles, function and level there is no 
difference in gender pay, but we do need to increase the number of females in the firm and 
in the construction industry as a whole. We have seen the gender split of our graduate intake 
shift positively over the last decade towards a greater number of female applicants but there 
is more work to do. 

With the introduction in 2012 of our Women’s Development Programme, which the firm 
believes was an industry first, G&T has been working to address diversity by providing a 
programme to develop, retain and advance females. G&T was also one of the first amongst 
its peers to sign up to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark in July 2015 which aims to 
create more diverse and representative workforces in construction. The firm supports and 
leads many other initiatives which seek to break down barriers and democratise entry to the 
profession for the next generation. These include working with Government to establish 
the standards for the new surveying apprenticeship which the firm now offers as part of its 
industry acclaimed Chartership Programme.

The results in this report show that we are ahead of the UK benchmark but there is more work 
to do. We are committed to remaining at the forefront of our industry in improving female 
representation and we will continue to promote and deliver equality throughout G&T.

I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained in this report for Gardiner & Theobald LLP 
is accurate.

SIMON JONES 
MANAGING PARTNER

  GENDER PAY REPORTING | 3

ABOUT G&T

ABOUT G&T

G&T is an independent construction and 
property consultancy working across all 
sectors of the built environment. 

We focus on minimising risk and creating opportunities 
to maximise the value of our clients’ developments and 
property assets. We deliver Project Leadership, Commercial 
Success, Construction Excellence and Specialist Consultancy 
working across all sectors of the built environment.

Our people are some of the most respected and highly 
trained in the industry. We ensure that we remain leaders 
in our field by investing in learning and development for 
everyone across the firm.

G&T is one of the most ethical firms in the built 
environment. Each year the firm and individuals support 
charitable causes through our social impact programme 
giving back to the communities we help to build.

OUR VALUES

Our diverse workforce is bound together by five core values 
we live by and underpin everything we do.

Independence
We have the freedom to offer unbiased advice and tailor 
services to suit every client and project.

Reputation
We maintain our standing in the industry by prioritising 
relationships with clients and offering the highest quality 
services.

Progression
We plan for the future by continually evolving our firm and 
investing in the next generation.

Ethical Thinking
We are a responsible firm and believe in doing the right 
thing to make a positive social impact.

Engagement
We encourage team-spirit, collaboration and inclusivity 
because we believe this leads to better outcomes for our 
clients and fulfilling careers for our people.

•  G&T introduced a Women’s Development 
Programme in 2012 to address some of the 
issues the construction and property industry 
is facing. The programme was initially aimed at 
senior females in the firm but was subsequently 
offered to all female colleagues. The 
programme’s aims are to develop, retain and 
advance women to ensure a diverse leadership 
community and in turn generate stronger 
business results.

•  Our Building for Women networking events 
are hosted quarterly. The network has grown 
substantially since it was introduced in 2014 and 
involves females from across the industry getting 
together with clients and colleagues (male and 
female) in an informal environment.

•  Our ongoing Change the Skyline initiative is 
aimed at attracting females into the industry 
at a young age and early stage in their career 
choice process, by challenging stereotypes and 
highlighting the benefits and diverse nature of 
working in the industry.

• 

Pay is regularly monitored to ensure equal pay 
among male and female counterparts.

•  Our recruitment process is monitored and 

continuously evolved to ensure we recruit both 
fairly and equally.

  GENDER PAY REPORTING | 5

GENDER PAY 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

What has been unequivocally determined by the analysis 
behind this review is that, when the same role, function 
and level within the firm are compared, there is no 
gender pay gap within G&T.  This is not a surprise, but 
nevertheless demonstrates that our culture and philosophy 
for equal opportunities is working. The mandated metrics 
that these new Regulations require involve the calculations 
of mean (the average) and median (the middle of a range 
of data) statistics using average hourly rates. Because 
these averages are calculated using gender specific data 
i.e. mean average total pay for men/women being the total 
pay of our male/female employees divided by the number 
of that gender, the results are statistically affected by the 
total number in each group, the spread of roles and the 
number of each gender in those roles.  The proportion 
of females in our technical teams relative to the total 
females we employ is 47% compared to 93% of males.  
This is representative of the number of women currently 
in the profession and the construction industry at large.  

GENDER PAY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Information) Regulations 2017 
(SI 2017/172) brought into effect a 
requirement for employers with 250 or 
more employees to report publicly every 
April on the differences in the aggregate 
pay and bonuses of men and women.

The Regulations mandate how private-sector and voluntary-
sector organisations in England, Scotland and Wales must 
calculate a standard set of key metrics on their gender pay 
and gender bonus gaps and the format and medium in 
which they must report them. 

Employers are required to report:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

the difference in the mean pay of men and women, 
expressed as a percentage  
the difference in the median pay of men and women, 
expressed as a percentage
the difference in mean bonus pay of men and women, 
expressed as a percentage of the proportion of men 
and women who received bonus pay
the difference in median bonus pay of men and women, 
expressed as a percentage of the proportion of men 
and women who received bonus pay
the proportion of full-pay men and women in each of 
four quartile pay bands

These figures should be published on both the employer’s 
and the Government’s website.

The figures in this report are for the snapshot date of 5th 
April 2017 as required by the new Government regulations.

The Regulations for the gender pay reporting stipulate 
that the calculations are to include all salaried employees.  
This data does not therefore include those individuals who 
are listed as members of Gardiner & Theobald LLP (OC 
3017124) at Companies House.

G&T GENDER SPLIT 

Whilst G&T has developed initiatives to improve the 
gender diversification and development of its female 
employees, there is currently an unequal population 
between the sexes: 375 males to 161 females.  This exists 
in both our professional/technical staff and those in 
supporting roles.  

  GENDER PAY REPORTING | 7

Pay Gap

MEAN
16.4%

MEDIAN

26%

Bonus Gap

MEAN
-37%

MEDIAN
-80.1%

50.1%

Proportion 

who received a bonus

49.7%

these are a lower proportion relative to the total and this 
also affects the mean and median statistics in favour of 
women.  The combined effect is that the gender splits 
again produce results that on first glance appear skewed 
but in reality are not.

The proportion of male employees that received a bonus 
is 50.1% and the proportion of females that received a 
bonus is 49.7% so around a 50/50 split meaning an equal 
percentage of both males and females received a bonus.

For as long as this imbalance persists, there will always 
be a gender pay gap (for mean and median numbers) 
generated by the application of these particular statistics. 

Whilst we would all recognise that there are significantly 
more men working in the construction industry than 
women, we are pleased that this is changing with more 
females every year embarking on a path to become 
chartered construction professionals. G&T is a leader 
in encouraging more women into the industry with the 
introduction of its industry leading Women’s Development 
Programme in 2012 and its Change the Skyline and Next 
Generation initiatives.

PAY 

Comparing the mean hourly pay rate for our men and 
women shows that there is a gap of 16.4% in favour 
of male employees, which is lower than the national 
average of 18.1% (as reported by the Equality and Human 
Rights Commission). When the median hourly pay rate is 
compared, a gap of 26% is apparent.

G&T is confident that its gender pay gap does not stem 
from paying men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work. Rather as described earlier, these results are 
simply the result of the roles in which men and women work 
within the organisation and the salaries these roles attract.  

BONUSES

G&T offers bonuses to all of its employees based on 
performance regardless of gender or grade.  When the 
male and female mean bonuses are compared we report 
female employees receive 37% more in bonuses than male 
employees.  When we take into account the median the gap 
stands at 80.1% in favour of female employees.

For exactly the same reasons as set out previously, any 
statistics relating to the bonuses received are similarly 
affected by an unequal population of men and women and 
the proportions that exist in comparable roles within the firm.  

By proportion there are more female employees working 
in support functions and these roles have tended to have 
a greater number of discretionary bonuses.  Those in 
technical roles progress their careers through promotion 
from one level to the next and typically receive salary 
increments at these points.  The same bonus philosophy 
equally affects our male employees in support roles but 

8 |  GENDER PAY REPORTING

PAY QUARTILES

Pay Quartiles

PROPORTION OF MEN AND WOMEN IN EACH OF FOUR QUARTILE PAY BANDS

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

VS

VS

57%

43%

64%

36%

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

VS

VS

79%

21%

80%

20%

G&T seeks to offer remuneration 
packages that are amongst the most 
competitive in the profession and at 
the market rate for all our employees 
– technical and support roles alike.  
Where warranted by performance, 
we offer discretionary bonuses to our 
employees regardless of gender, role 
or grade.”

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE

The construction industry continues to experience a skills 
shortage, with a significant number of professionals due 
to retire over the next 10 years it has never been more 
important to attract new people into the industry. At G&T 
we take our share of the responsibility for addressing this 
issue and we believe that women have a significant role to 
play in plugging the skills gap. Encouraging a wider range of 
individuals, including women, into construction will also help 
to ensure a more diverse leadership community in the future. 

Chartership Programme
Progression is at the heart of G&T and one of the firm’s 
core business values. We have been training graduates 
since 1975. The first structured Graduate Development 
Scheme was introduced in 2004 and in September 2016 G&T 
introduced its Chartership Programme to ensure individuals 

  GENDER PAY REPORTING | 9

there is a lower number of women within construction 
generally so we signed up for the RICS Quality Mark which 
drives behavioural changes in the RICS membership by 
encouraging all firms, large and small, to look carefully at 
their employment practices and have inclusivity at the heart 
of what they do.

At G&T, we understand that the most successful 
organisations have workforces that are reflective of the 
general population and communities within which they 
work.  We fundamentally believe it will have significant 
benefits for individuals, organisations and clients.
G&T has pledged its commitment to adopting and 
continually improving against the following principles:

1. Leadership and Vision – commitment to increasing the 
diversity of the workforce 

2. Recruitment – engage and attract new people to the 
industry from under represented groups using best practice 
recruitment methods 

3. Employee development – training and promotion 
policies that offer equal opportunities for career progression 

4. Employee retention – flexible working arrangements/
adaptive working practices 
5. Employee engagement – an inclusive culture where all 
employees engage with developing, delivering, monitoring 
and assessing the diversity and inclusivity policies 

6. Continuous improvement – continually refreshing and 
renewing the firm’s commitment to being the best employer 
sharing and learning from best practice across the industry

We believe our commitment to the RICS 
Inclusive Employer Quality Mark will 
help to open doors to as many people 
from different backgrounds as we can 
and that those people will see welcoming 
and successful careers available 
to them.”

joining the firm achieve their professional qualification in a 
timeframe relevant to them. 

The programme builds on the G&T led Trailblazer 
Apprenticeships which saw academia, industry, the RICS and 
the Government work together to develop a new pathway 
for individuals to enter the profession. It aims to attract a 
wider pool of candidates to the industry, not only those from 
university but also individuals from different backgrounds, 
ages, genders and abilities by offering a structured training 
pathway regardless of whether individuals join us as 
apprentices, graduates or career changers.

Working Mothers
G&T has lost a proportion of women following maternity 
leave as they have chosen to give up their careers or put 
their careers on hold to concentrate on bringing up their 
family. Whilst we recognise that this is a personal choice 
we have reviewed ways to make returning to work a more 
attractive option. We will shortly be announcing a new 
package for mothers who wish to return to the workplace.

The firm has recently introduced a mentoring programme 
to enable employees to engage in career conversations and 
learn from others within the firm who are willing to share their 
knowledge and experiences. This programme is particularly 
beneficial for working mothers who can learn from others 
facing the same challenges of finding the right work/life 
balance.

Professional Networks
In addition to our structured Women’s Development 
Programme mentioned earlier we have also introduced other 
opportunities for women to build their careers such as our 
Building for Women quarterly events. These events have 
grown substantially since they were introduced in 2014 and 
involve females from across the industry getting together 
with clients and colleagues (male and female) in an informal 
environment to build their professional networks.

Next Generation
In 2018 we are continuing with our NextGen programme 
which includes collaborations with London Real Estate 
Forum and New London Architecture. It aims to help 
identify and encourage the built environment’s future 
leaders.  Our 2018 NextGen register includes more male and 
female participants than ever before ranging from trainee/
apprentice/graduate up to young partners. Through a 
year-long programme of activities, individuals will build their 
confidence, increase their industry contacts and hone their 
networking skills, helping to better equip them as future 
leaders of the industry.

Diversity
G&T has been taking action to address the gender balance 
in our workforce for the last few years. We recognised that 

10 |  GENDER PAY REPORTING

www.gardiner.com

@gt_llp

