GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING 
The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulation 2017 requires 
Wickersley Partnership Trust to publish their gender pay gap report annually to demonstrate 
how large the pay gap is between our male and female employees. We publish these results 
by 31st March each year.  
Employers must set out the six key metrics, the figures have been reached using the 
mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay gap reporting legislation. The data below is 
calculated using a snapshot of payroll data at March 2017. 
We use these results to assess: 

the level of gender equality in our workplace 
the balance of male and female employees at different levels  

• 
• 
•  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded 

The overall gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean (average) or 
median (actual midpoint) hourly rate of pay of male and female employees.  
 
The results of these 6 key statutory calculations are identified in the table below: 
 

Total Employees 753 

1. Mean Gender pay gap in hourly pay as a 
percentage of men’s pay 

Female Employees  603 
 
22.1%  

Male Employees  150 

2. Median gender pay gap in hourly pay as a 
percentage of men’s pay  

26.6%  

3. Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean 
average 

4. Average bonus gender pay gap as a median 
average 

NA 

NA 

5. Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment 
and proportion of females receiving a bonus 
payment 

No bonus payments made 

6. Proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered from highest to lowest pay 

Upper Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile 

Male 32% 

Male 26% 

Male 18% 

Male 7% 

Female 68% 

Female 74% 

Female 82% 

Female 93% 

 
Gender Pay Gap Narrative 
Wickersley Partnership Trust is an equal opportunities employer. We support the fair 
treatment of all staff, irrespective of gender through our transparent recruitment process, pay 
policy, and professional development process. All our posts are aligned to nationally agreed 
pay scales and our male and female staff are paid within the same pay band for the same 
job role. For teachers we have pay scales aligned to the School Teacher Pay and Conditions 

Document that are reviewed on an annual basis and rewarded for their professional 
performance, wider contribution to the school and their level of experience. For support staff 
we have a pay system of grades set by the NJC (National Joint Council for Local 
Government Service) and via a process of Job Evaluation Scheme. Therefore, grades vary 
according to the level of responsibility that employees have. Each grade has a set pay 
range; employees are expected to move through the pay range for their grade. The longer 
period that someone has been in a grade, the more we would expect him or her to earn 
irrespective of his or her gender. 
While there is an apparent pay gap between men and women, the national average (using 
the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings figures) is currently around 18%, the overall pay 
gap reflects workforce composition rather than pay inequalities, this is contextualised by the 
demographic of the employees in that 80% of the workforce is female, and that there is a 
substantial skew in lower salaried jobs which are historically and predominantly occupied by 
females.  
In primary schools particularly (of the 9 schools reported there are 7 primaries) the 
percentage of females to males is in the order of 93%:7%. A significant number of the 
female posts are support posts which attract lower salaries. Females and males are paid at 
the same rate for the same work on standard scales. The fundamental reason therefore for 
the identified gender pay gap is the disparity in proportion between female and male in term-
time only, part-time, lower paid roles in schools such as lunchtime supervisors and teaching 
assistants. Although we have a majority of females in the junior pay grades, we also have a 
majority of women in the upper leadership grades. Across Wickersley Partnership Trust 
female employees account for 73.8% of all Leadership Roles. The Trust senior leadership 
team consists of 66% female employees including the Chief Executive Officer. 
The challenge in our organisation and across Great Britain is to eliminate any gender pay 
gap. Wickersley Partnership Trust is committed to ensuring that all staff receive equal pay 
for equal work regardless of gender. Male and female staff within the Trust are treated 
equally on appointment and throughout their careers at Wickersley Partnership Trust.  
 

Supporting statement 

I can confirm that the above information has been prepared from our payroll data from the 
snapshot date of March 31, 2017 and fairly represents the gender pay gap information for 
Wickersley Partnership Trust. 

Helen O’Brien Chief Executive Officer and Accounting Officer 
Published details can be found on GOV.UK Gender Pay Gap website 
You can learn more about Gender Pay Reporting by visiting: www.acas.org.uk/genderpay. 

