 

 
 
LSE Gender Pay Gap Report 2017  
 
The  UK  Government  has  introduced  new  reporting  regulations  under  the  Equality  Act  2010  requiring 
companies with over 250 employees to disclose their gender pay gap annually from April 2017.   
 
The data required is as follows:   
 
•Gender pay gap (mean and median averages) 
•Gender bonus gap (mean and median averages) 
•Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses 
•Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s pay structure. 
 
This report sets our results for 2017 in line with the legislative requirements.  However, the School has been 
committed for some time to pay audits. An equal pay audit was carried out in 2013 and, in 2016, the School 
commissioned a report by Professor Oriana Bandiera on the gender and ethnicity earnings gap at LSE, the 
aim of which was to provide quantitative evidence on the pay gap for academic and professional staff.   
 
The  previous  reports  are  part  of  a  larger  body  of  work  which  seeks  to  fulfil  our  commitment  to  equality, 
including  gender  equality.  Both  reports  have  helped  us  to  understand  the  reasons  behind  any  inequalities, 
and therefore identify specific initiatives needed.   
 
This report sets out the actions we are taking to close our gender pay gap which form part of a wider set of 
initiatives  and  policies.  A  key  priority  for  LSE  is  to  strengthen  our  commitment  to  equity,  diversity  and 
inclusion  and  take relevant  action  throughout  the  institution.    ‘Equality  of  respect  and opportunity’  is  a core 
principle of the School's Ethics Code and the Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2017-2022 includes the 
achievement of pay equity as a key performance indicator in promoting diversity amongst the School's staff 
communities, and an inclusive staff experience.   
 
A number of initiatives in relation to equity, diversity and inclusion have already been taken forward following 
the establishment of the EDI Taskforce in 2015, whose role was to conduct a root-and-branch review of EDI 
issues at the School, generate policy proposals and initiate changes around the institutional architecture and 
campus culture in order to maximise equity, diversity and inclusion across the School. 
  
 
Calculating the Gender Pay Gap 
 
A ‘gender pay gap’ is the difference in the average hourly rate of ‘ordinary pay’1 between all men and women 
in a company or institution.  This is not the same as ‘equal pay’ which relates to the pay that people receive 
when doing the same or a similar role. It is also not the same as ‘pay equity’, which for academic staff relates 
to the pay that people receive at the same pay band (e.g. at the Associate Professor level) within the same 
Department. 
 
When  considering  equal  pay,  we  have  policies  and  procedures  in  place  for  setting  pay  levels  across  the 
organisation and use a job evaluation system to ensure that jobs of equal value are paid consistently.  As a 
result of the 2016 report by Professor Bandiera, a pay equity exercise was carried out to review all academic 
salaries.  Heads of Department were trained to conduct a pay equity review of their staff and to recommend 
individuals for a pay rise where pay inequities were considered to exist. A School-level committee reviewed 
and implemented pay changes to address pay inequities. 
  

                                                

1.  Ordinary Pay (for the purposes of calculating Mean, Median and Quartiles) includes basic pay, shift 

premium pay, pay for piecework, supplements and honoraria payments, additional responsibility 
allowances and any allowances for roles such as first aiders. All ordinary pay is calculated on gross 
amounts. Ordinary pay does not include overtime, redundancy or termination payments or pay in lieu 
of annual leave. 

 
 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
Our  median  gender  pay  gap  based  on  Ordinary  Pay1  is  14.89%2.    This  is  the  difference  between  the  mid-
point of earnings for men (£22.64) and for women (£19.27) divided by the earnings for men; see table 1. The 
UK national average, according to the Office for National Statistics, is 18.4%.  
 
Table 1. Median gender pay gap. 
 
 

 
Median Hourly Rate 
£22.64 
£19.27 

 

 
Pay Gap % 
14.89 

Male Pay 
Female Pay 
 
 
When looking at LSE’s mean gender pay gap, this increases to 25.78%.  The mean gender pay gap looks at 
the difference between the average of men’s (£32.35) and women’s (£24.01) pay divided by the earnings of 
men; see table 2. 
 
Table 2. Mean gender pay gap. 
 
 
 
Male Pay 
Female Pay 
 
 
The median and mean gender pay gaps further break down as follows according to staff category: 
 
Table 3.  
 

 
Mean Hourly Rate 
£32.35 
£24.01 

 
Number of People 
1660 
1696 

 
Pay Gap % 
25.78 

 

 
Annual Salary 

£53,702.92 
£40,725.25 

 
Staff Category 
Academic Staff 
Professional Services Staff 
Research Staff 
Teaching Staff 

 
Median Pay Gap 
17.72% 
0% 
5.02% 
0% 

 
Mean Pay Gap 

18.25% 
9.84% 
21.93% 
8.34% 

 
Analysing the reasons for this, the gender pay gap is strongly influenced by a higher representation of men 
in  senior  positions  at  the  School,  with  approximately  two  thirds  of  the  positions  at  the  most  senior  grades 
being occupied by men.   
 
In  addition,  for  academic  staff  there  are  certain  disciplines  and  departments  in  which  it  is  harder  to  attract 
academic  staff  and  where  it  is  necessary  to  pay  a  higher  premia  in  order  to  do  so.    These  disciplines  are 
traditionally male-dominated, not just at LSE but globally. In summary, for academic staff the gender pay gap 
is  underpinned  by  two  factors:  the  share  of  women  is  lower  at  Professorial  level  than  at  Associate 
Professorial  or  Assistant  Professorial  levels  and  women  are  more  likely  to  work  in  the  departments  where 
pay tends to be lower.              
 
The School is undertaking a number of measures on recruitment, career progression and pay equity to help 
tackle this gap. Examples of these measures are included in the end of this report. 
 
Gender Bonus Gap & Proportion of Men and Women Receiving Bonuses 
 
Bonus pay (for the purposes of calculating bonus mean, median and proportions) is calculated on payments 
made between 01 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. These payments include lump sum contribution payments to 
reward exceptional performance, research incentive awards and advance performance supplements3. 

                                                
2 Includes all salaried and hourly paid staff (excludes casual workers where this is the only role held and there are no set hours). 

 

Median % 

Proportion % 

 
49.20 

 
25.40 

 
250 
 
269 

 
15.06 
 
15.86 

Total Bonus Pay  Number of People  Mean % 

 
£1,097,063.86 
 
£557,356.17 

 
Table  4  shows  that  15.06%  of  men  received  bonus  pay  compared  with  15.86%  of  women.    The  median 
gender bonus gap is 25.4% and the mean bonus gap is 49.2%.   
 
Table 4. 
 
 
 
Male Pay 
 
Female Pay 
 
After analysing the reasons behind this, it is clear the gender bonus gap is strongly  influenced by research 
incentive awards. 
 
These awards account for over half of all bonus payments made and approximately three quarters were paid 
to men in the relevant period. This is predominantly due to two factors.  Firstly, professors are normally more 
successful  in  winning  external  research  grants  and  there  are  fewer  women  professors.    Secondly,  the 
departments which have been particularly successful in winning research grants are those which are  male-
dominated. 
 
Tackling  this  bonus  gap  requires  a  strong  focus  on  areas  such  as  career  progression  and  recruitment  for 
women, particularly in disciplines which tend to be male-dominated. Examples of action being taken around 
recruitment, progression and related areas are included in the final part of this report. 
 
When  looking  at  what  is  traditionally  meant  by  a  ‘bonus’  (ie.  a  lump  sum  paid  on  a  one-off  basis  to reflect 
performance),  the  overall  gap  reduces  to  a  15.5%  median  gender  bonus  gap  and  a  -3.21%  mean  gender 
bonus gap, i.e. the mean gender bonus gap is in favour of women.  These account for approximately 40% of 
all bonus payments made.  
 
Less than 10% of bonus payments relate to advance performance supplements. 
 
 
Pay Quartiles 
 
The table below shows the proportion of men and women in each pay quartile, demonstrating that there are 
more women than men in three quartiles and a higher proportion of men in the upper quartile.  
 
Table 5. 
 

Quartile 

Upper: 75-100% of full-pay relevant employees 

Upper middle: 50-75% of full-pay relevant employees 

Lower middle: 25-50% of full-pay relevant employees 

Lower: 0-25% of full-pay relevant employees 

Female 
% 

34% 

56% 

56% 

56% 

Male 
% 

66% 

44% 

44% 

44% 

 
When  considering  the  data  in  more  detail,  it  shows  that  this  pattern  is  replicated  for  academic  staff,  but  is 
more varied when considering other job categories.  For professional services staff, there are more women in 
roles at every  level,  including the upper quartile,  where the ratio is  55% to 45%.  Research staff follow the 
same pattern as academics, but there is an even 50:50 split in the lowest quartile.  For teaching staff, there 
are more male colleagues in every quartile.   

                                                                                                                                                            
3 Research incentive awards provide financial rewards for academic staff who win research funding. The amounts are calculated on the 
basis of the income recovered from funders to cover the costs of the salaries of principal investigators (PIs) and co-investigators (Co-Is). 
Advance performance supplements are made in order to recruit or retain staff in recognition that an individual may be on a career 
trajectory which makes them highly attractive to other employers. They are subject to a review period and review criteria. Whilst 
contribution payments are open to all staff categories, research incentive awards only apply to academic staff and academic staff hold 
the vast majority of advance performance supplements. 

 

 
 
Closing the Gender Pay Gap 
 
The School is committed to understanding and taking action to close the gender pay gap.  Specific initiatives 
have  either  been  implemented  or  are  being  undertaken.  In  many  cases  they  address  the  gender  pay  gap 
specifically  but  also  the  wider  challenges  of  recruitment,  promotions  and  representation  across  the 
organisation. Actions being taken by the School include the following: 
 
 
On pay 
 

  Carrying  out  a  more  in-depth  analysis  of  the  gender  pay  gap  data  to  help  more  granular 

understanding of the reasons behind the data. 

  Pay policies  have been reviewed and  updated to ensure that gender equity  across the  School is  a 
primary  consideration.    For  professional  services  staff,  starting  salaries  in  senior  positions  are 
approved  by  the  COO  in  consultation  with  the  HR  Director  after  they  have  received  and  reviewed 
comparable  salary  data.    Similarly,  decisions  regarding  contribution  pay  will  take  gender 
comparability into account.  

  An  extraordinary  meeting  of  the  Academic  Staff  Review  Committee  during  the  2016/17  session 
looked  specifically  at  pay  equity  for  academic,  research  and  teaching  staff  in  general,  with  a 
particular  focus  on  women.    This  resulted  in  salary  amendments  for  many  staff,  effective  from  1 
August  2017.  Whilst  pay  equity  differs  from  pay  equality,  establishing  pay  equity  contributes  to 
promoting pay equality. 

  The contribution pay guidance has been updated to include a criterion for making nominations on the 

basis of supporting pay equity.  

  Since  the  2016/17  academic  year,  division  leaders  have  been  provided  with  a  breakdown  of 
contribution awards and equality data on contribution awards of the previous two years. This ensures 
they are aware of the equity in decisions being made and of any patterns of under-representation.4   
  

On career progression 

  Promotion and Review processes for academic and research staff are subject to ongoing review to 

ensure any potential bias is eliminated. 

  Relevant  senior  committees  now  receive  equality  data  on  promotion  and  contribution  pay.  This 

enables monitoring and School-wide benchmarking based on gender to be carried out. 

  Provision  has  been  made  for  increased  numbers  of  women  to  attend  the  Aurora  Leadership 

Foundation for Higher Education, which supports women to enable leadership potential. 

  Research leave has been introduced to support those returning from maternity leave to  re-establish 

their research trajectory following a long period of absence.  

  Enhanced  shared  parental  leave  was  introduced  in  2016  to  enable  both  men  and  women  to  take 

time off around the birth of a child (and to benefit from research leave respectively). 

  We  have  introduced  a  revised  Flexible  Working  Policy  and,  in  order  to  facilitate  different  flexible 
working options, a Core Hours Policy.  This enables staff to attend essential meetings who may have 
been unable to do so if they took place too early or too late in the day.  

 
On recruitment 

  To limit the potential impact of unconscious  bias, the  School is  working on  introducing anonymised 
applications  for  professional  services  staff.  This  is  scheduled  to  be  introduced  in  the  2018/19 
academic year.  Likewise, changes to shortlisting practices for academic positions were put in place 
in 2017/18 with the same aim.   

  Work  is  being  carried  out  to improve the  content of  the  LSE  jobsite and  LinkedIn careers  pages  to 
reflect a diverse PSS workforce, specifically highlighting the family-friendly provision.  In addition, we 
are  working  with  our  external  suppliers  with  the  aim  of  broadening  the  reach  of  our  advertising. 
 

                                                
4 In the relevant 2016-17 period, there were 204 lump sum bonus payments made to professional services 
women and 137 made to professional services men resulting in a median bonus pay gap of 3.85%. For 
academics this was evenly split – 34 lump sum bonus payments to men and 35 payments to women. The 
median value of these lump sum bonus payments resulted in a median contribution bonus payment gap of 
0%. 

 

In  addition  to  these  specific  initiatives,  it  is  worth  noting  that  in  the  past  two  recruitment  rounds,  LSE  has 
appointed more women than men to academic posts. Given the nature of the career trajectory for academic 
staff, it will take time for these appointments to progress to more senior positions, but is indicative of a more 
positive future trend. 
 
 
HR/February2018 

 
 

 
 

