v

1

Gender Pay Report 2017

2

Contents

3

As a UK employer we are required to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employees’ data. Hertel UK aims to ensure that people are treated equally at work, across all levels and locations. This includes making sure they have the same opportunities for recognition, reward and career development.  We believe that we operate equal pay however we do have a gender pay gap. There are two main reasons for the gender pay gap in our company: a small number of female employees in the business (5%) and a small number of women in senior leadership positions. We support the UK government’s leadership in gender equality, and the requirement for companies to publish their data. We will continue to work to narrow the gender pay gap in the UK.  I confirm the gender pay gap data contained in this report for Hertel UK is accurate and has been produced in accordance with the guidance on managing gender pay developed by the Arbitration and Conciliation Service (Acas).  David Massey HR Director – Hertel UK & Ireland Additional Information

▪ Hertel UK provides services to the process, power and 

nuclear industries.

▪ The skill sets required to undertake these services have 

historically attracted males but very few females.

▪ There is no restriction on females entering the industry 

but the uptake of female Apprentices is very low.

▪ Our main occupations are Scaffolder, Insulator, Rigger, 

Welder, Pipe Fitter, Asbestos Remover, Industrial Cleaner 
& Labourer.

▪ The gender split in Hertel UK employment is 95% male, 

5% female.

▪ The vast majority of our positions are operational and 

based on client sites.

▪ The employment terms and pay rates for those roles are 

determined by either National Working Rule or Site 
Agreements.

▪ The majority of our Female employees are employed in 
Support Service roles e.g. HSE, HR, Finance & Business 
Development.

4

v

5

