 

 
Gender pay gap reporting – March 2018 
 
Context  
In line with the gender pay reporting legislation introduced in 2017 (which requires 
companies with more than 250 employees to report gender pay gap data), National 
Museums Liverpool publishes annual statutory calculations of the pay gap between our 
male and female colleagues. The data is calculated using the snapshot date of 31 
March, as for all Public Authorities (figures in this report are from 31 March 2017). 
 
The information includes: 
 

  Mean and median gender pay gaps  
  Mean and median gender bonus gaps  
  Proportion of male and female employees receiving bonuses  
  Proportion of male and female employees in each quartile pay band  

 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay between all men and women 
working at National Museums Liverpool.  
 
The mean gender pay gap looks at the difference between the mean hourly rate for all 
eligible male employees and all eligible female employees. (‘Mean’ is the average when 
all hourly rates are added together and divided by the number of employees).  
 
The median gender pay gap looks at the difference between the median hourly rate of 
pay for all eligible male employees and all eligible female employees. (‘Median’ is the 
hourly rate of the middle employee, for example, if an organisation had 100 employees 
ranging from highest to lowest in terms of hourly rates, it would be the rate of the 50th 
employee). 
 
The gender pay gap differs from equal pay, which is concerned with pay differences 
between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs, or work of equal 
value. 
  
Our workforce  
On 31 March 2017, our total number of employees was 527. This was made up of 313 
women (59%) and 214 men (41%). 
 
Our pay gap  
Using the mean calculation, on average our male employees earn 2.9% more than 
female employees. Using the median calculation, on average our male employees earn 
6.7% more than female colleagues.  In benchmarking terms, our pay gap is significantly 
lower than the UK mean of 18.1% and the civil service mean of 11%.   
 
We do not pay bonuses as part of our employee remuneration and therefore on 31 
March 2017 there was no data to report within this area. 
 

Our gender pay gap data 
 

Gender pay gap 

 

Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap 

Mean gender pay gap - bonus payments 
Median gender pay gap - bonus payments 

Proportion of people paid a bonus 

 

Males 
Females 

 

Quartile 
Lower 
Lower Middle 
Upper Middle 
Upper 

 

 

Lower Quartile 

34% 

66% 

 
 
 

 
Proportion of male and female employees per quartile 

 

 

 

Males 
34% 
43% 
46% 
38% 

Females
Males

 

Females 
66% 
57% 
54% 
62% 

 

 

 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Females
Males

46% 

54% 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Upper Quartile 

Females
Males

Females
Males

43% 

38% 

57% 

62% 

2.9% 
6.7% 

N/A 

N/A 

0 
0 

 

 

Proportion of Male and Female Employees per 

Quartile 

Males

Females

100%

90%

80%

70%

60%

50%

40%

30%

20%

10%

0%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

Analysis  
Our workforce is predominately female which may in some way explain why, in 
particular, the median average for women is lower. Our figures show that while female 
employees take a majority of roles in every pay quartile, including the senior roles, 
these proportions are at their highest in the most junior roles at National Museums 
Liverpool.  
  
As part of understanding why our pay gap exists we have looked at the average length 
of service of our employees. In the past we had a pay structure which linked length of 
service to pay progression and therefore this may have an impact on the disparity in 
basic pay across the workforce. Male employees have on average 11 years service 
compared to the female average of 9 years. An element of the pay gap can therefore be 
explained through the differential in length of service, with male employees having 
served longer in post, on average.  
 
 
Actions we are taking  
In 2016 we introduced a new pay policy with the aim of addressing long standing issues 
left by a long period of historical pay freezes and restraint which disproportionately 
affected colleagues with shorter lengths of service. The key principle of our pay system 
is a fair rate of pay based on a suitable market rate.  
 

    

We continue to pay the Living Wage, and pay for relevant staff will increase to the new 
minimum rate on 01 April 2018. This continues to have an impact on closing the gap for 
employees in our more junior roles.  
 
We will continue to provide Childcare Vouchers to support our colleagues who are 
working parents. 
 
In addition we advocate flexible working, and we have policies that support all 
colleagues, regardless of gender or length of service, to support an even work life 
balance.    
 
We focus on supporting personal development for all staff, including developing 
leadership and management skills, with particular focus on career development and 
management training. 
 

