 
 

The Gym Group plc 

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017 

 
This  gender  pay  gap  report  is  made  in  respect  of  The  Gym  Group  plc,  and  all  employing  entities 
within the Group. The figures, which have been taken as at 5 April 2017 have been calculated using 
the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 
2017. 

 

The  Gym  Group  is  committed  to  the  principle  of  equality  and  equal  treatment  for  all  employees, 
regardless  of  sex,  race,  religion  or  belief,  age,  marriage  or  civil  partnership,  pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally 
for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As 
such, it: 

carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals; 

• 
•  provides regular advice for all managers and employees who are involved in pay reviews; and 
•  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

The Gym Group is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and 
women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles 
in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

This can be seen below in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. For there to be no gender pay 
gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each Band. However, within The Gym 
Group, some bands show a varying number of women to men ratio, which reflects the different roles 
carried out by men and women.  

Pay gap and bonus difference between male and female employees 

Difference Between Men and Women 

 

 
  

Mean 

10.16% 

20.33% 

Median 

3.31% 

27.76% 

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment 

Hourly Pay 

Bonus Pay 

  

 
 

  

Received Bonus Pay 

Women 

13.28% 

Men 

20.57% 

  
 
 
 

  

 

Proportion of men and women in each hourly pay quartile 

Quartile 

Upper 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower 

Men 

70.52% 

60.34% 

63.79% 

67.24% 

Women 

29.48% 

39.18% 

36.21% 

32.76% 

What is The Gym Group doing to address its gender pay gap? 

 

While The Gym Group’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations both across 
the whole UK economy and within the low-cost retail and fitness sector, this is not a subject about 
which the Company is complacent, and it is committed to doing everything that it can to reduce the 
gap. However, The Gym Group also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, 
for example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career choices 
that they make. 

The Gym Group has taken steps to promote gender diversity in all areas of its workforce, and 
commits to introducing gender monitoring to identify any barriers to gender equality and inform 
priorities for action. None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be 
several years before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, The Gym Group is committed to 
reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that it 
is making. 

 

