 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

Rodericks Dental Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

Having been associated in dentistry since 1984, Rodericks Dental Limited are 
proud to operate more than 70 high quality, modern NHS dental practices all 
over England and Wales. We have very exciting plans to grow our estate 
further so more patients can receive excellent oral care from our excellent 
practice teams. 

 

We offer comprehensive dental services, and whether our patients require 
NHS, private or specialist services, all are underpinned by our ethos of 
delivering the highest quality treatments and patient care. So at every visit, 
from a simple check up to more complex treatments, patients will always 
receive the same warm welcome and expert service. 

 

We are committed to being the provider of choice for patients, dentists and 
employees, with values that underpin our approach to delivering the vision: 

We care about our patients 

We care about our dentists 

We care about our people 

We aim to provide high quality care, in dynamic practices with professionally 
motivated staff for loyal patients, delivering dentistry, delivering better oral 
health. 

 

Publishing gender pay gap data on an annual basis will help us to see where 
action to close the gender pay gap is most needed. It will also help us to 
establish a benchmark for our own employees. 

 

 

 

What is Gender Pay Gap Reporting?   

 

 

 

From 2017 onwards, any UK organisation employing 250 or more employees 
has to publicly report on its gender pay gap in six different ways:  

the mean and median gender pay gaps; 

the mean and median gender bonus gaps;  

the proportion of men and women who received bonuses,  

and the number of men and women according to quartile pay bands.  

 

Gender pay gap reporting does not mean that organisations have to report on 
equal pay. Equal pay is about differences in the actual earnings of men and 
women doing equal work. Rodericks Dental Limited is an equal pay employer. 

Our Gender Pay Gap data 

 

60.00%

50.00%

40.00%

30.00%

20.00%

10.00%

0.00%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pay gap

mean

median

 

The Mean Hourly rate for women is £8.74 

The Mean hourly rate for men is £17.23 

Mean Gender Pay is 49.28% 

The Median hourly rate for women is £7.50 

The Median hourly rate for men is £10.11 

Median Gender Pay Gap is 25.82% 

 

  72 Male Employees 
o  5 Directors  
o  21 Central / Support Staff  
o  13 Dentists / Therapists 
o  5 Practice Managers 
o  28 Nurses / Receptionists  

 

  714 Female Employees 

o  1 Director 
o  44 Central / Support Staff  
o  17 Dentists / Therapists  
o  56 Practice Managers 
o  596 Nurses / Receptionists  

 

We collected our data on 5 April 2017, when our workforce consisted of 714 
women and 72 men. The figures show that Rodericks Dental Limited has a 
mean gender pay gap of 49.3% and a median gender pay gap of 25.8%.  

In common with the dentistry profession as a whole, our organisation is 
predominantly female. Given that 90% of our workforce is female, it is also the 
case that women outnumber men at most levels of the organisation. However, 
the fact that there are a greater proportion of men in the upper pay quartiles 
compared with lower pay quartiles, and a greater proportion of women in the 
lower pay quartiles compared with the upper pay quartiles, has an impact on 
our gender pay gap.  

lower

8.63%

lower middle

5.10%

91.37%

94.90

%

Male

Female

Male

Female

upper middle

3.05%

upper

19.90%

96.95%

80.10%

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

 

 

Having a predominantly female workforce means that even small fluctuations 
in the male workforce can have a significant impact on our gender pay gap. For 
instance, for the period reported, we had 5 males and 1 female in senior 
director roles. Were we to separate these individuals from the rest of the 
organisation for the purposes of illustration, the overall mean gender pay gap 
would drop from 49.3% to 30.4% and the overall mean gender bonus gap 
would drop from 90.3% to 36.7%. 

Median Bonus Pay Gap - 33% 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap - 90.32% 

46.5% - Women received a bonus 

27.78% - Men received a bonus 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Dental industry also has a less than typical workforce from a contractual 
point of view, in that clinicians (including dentists) tend to be self-employed 
not employed, meaning that our clinicians have not been included in our 
gender pay gap reporting. Being female dominated as a profession, it is likely 
that including this significant part of our workforce would also reduce our 
overall gender pay gap.    

 

 

Taking Action 

 

These figures show that we can and should be taking action to reduce the 
gender pay gap in our organisation. We are prioritising the following areas for 
action: 

  We are implementing a Human Resources system which will enable us 

to regularly review our gender pay gap and build in a monitoring 
process for annual pay and bonus reviews.  
 

  As an equal opportunities employer, we firmly believe in appointing the 
best candidate into the role, regardless of their gender or other factors 
covered by the Equality Act. We will continue to focus on improving our 
systems and processes for attraction and recruitment to reach a diverse 
range of candidates 
 

  We have had some great success in flexibility of working within the 
organisation. We will actively encourage this for any level of role, to 
ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work in a way that 
supports them for their career aspirations and home life. 
 

  We will focus on supporting all our people to develop their careers and 
reach their potential through promotion of development opportunities, 
holding career conversations, coaching and mentoring. 

We are confident that the above actions will have a positive effect on reducing 
the gender pay gap in Rodericks Dental Limited and we can already forecast a 
small reduction for the next reporting year driven partly by a greater gender 
balance in senior director roles.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of 
the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 

 

Signed 

 

Shalin Mehra, Managing Director of Rodericks Dental Limited 

26th March 2018 

