2017 GENDER PAY REPORT

“Our company was founded in 1946 by an 
inspirational woman and business visionary, 
Mrs Estée Lauder. Her influence has helped 
guide our values, especially our unwavering 
commitment to the principles of gender 
equality, that are central to the approach we 
take to building and managing our teams.” 

Philippe Warnery,  
Senior Vice President / General Manager,  
The Estée Lauder Companies UK & Ireland

“Gender equality and full respect for each 
individual are integral to our company values. 
Our inclusive culture encourages advocacy, 
openness and appreciation of our employees’ 
individuality. Like many other businesses, 
we are examining how we can address the 
societal and company-specific challenges that 
are factors in the gender pay gap.”  

Usha Kakaria-Cayaux,  
Vice President, Human Resources,  
The Estée Lauder Companies UK & Ireland  

2

2017 GENDER PAY REPORT2017 GENDER PAY REPORT

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP? 

The  gender  pay  gap  measures  the  difference  between 
the  average  earnings  of  women  and  men  across  the 
business (shown as a percentage of men’s earnings). This 
is expressed through reporting the differences in mean and 
median earnings between women and men calculated on 
the basis of equivalent hourly rates. 

The  gender  pay  gap  should  not  be  confused 
with  equal  pay,  which  requires  that  women  and 
men  carrying  out  the  same  or  similar  work  in 
the  same  employment  receive  the  same  pay.  
The Estée Lauder Companies pays equal pay for 
equal work. All roles are evaluated in a consistent 
way  and  all  employees  are  rewarded  based  on 
their performance. 

In addition to measuring the mean and median pay gap, 
the legislation requires that we publish: 

•  Our bonus gender pay gap.

•  The  proportion  of  women  and  men  who  received  

bonus pay. 

•  The proportion of women and men in each of the four 

The principles of gender equality, respect of each individual 
and inclusion and diversity are integral to the way we build 
and  manage  our  business.  We  ensure  that  our  policies, 
structures  and  working  practices  align  with  these.  As 
an  example,  all  our  activities  to  promote  inclusion  and 
diversity are reported to the Chairman of the Board.

pay quartile bands.

 

We  are  committed  to  fostering  a  transparent  and  fair 
working  environment,  rewarding  employees  on  the  basis 
of  their  performance,  and  we  acknowledge  that  there  is 
more that we can do to reduce our gender pay gap.

MEAN PAY GAP 
The mean pay gap is the difference in the average 
earnings between all women and men.

MEDIAN PAY GAP
The median pay gap is the mid-point between high 
and low earnings between all women and men. 

In January 2018, The Estée Lauder Companies was 
included in Bloomberg’s inaugural 2018 Gender 
Equality  Index,  which  highlights  companies  that 
are committed to advancing gender equality.  

LOW PAID

MEDIAN

HIGH PAID

3

2017 GENDER PAY REPORTBREAKING DOWN OUR RESULTS -  
THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES IN THE UK 

OVERVIEW

This  report  includes  separate  gender  pay  gap  figures 
for  The  Estée  Lauder  Companies  in  the  UK  (‘ELC  UK’), 
our  corporate  and  point  of  sale  business,  and  Whitman 
Laboratories  (‘Whitman’),  our  UK-based  manufacturing 
business.

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES IN THE UK

Our  gender  pay  figures  show  that  the  average  male 
employee has a higher hourly rate of pay than the average 
female. There are two main reasons for this: 

•  Firstly, as a beauty company, we tend to attract women 
into  consumer-facing  roles  and  this  also  reflects  the 
profile of our consumers.

 

These  roles  are  competitively  paid,  however  they  
reflect  the  salary  norms  of  the  retail  environment,  
and  store-based  roles  are  typically  lower  paid  than 
office-based roles. 

  Work in retail roles also tends to attract women because 

of the part-time* and flexible working opportunities. 

•  Secondly,  we  have  more  men  in  corporate  office, 

specialist, technical and managerial roles. 

Our bonus gap figures are also influenced by the fact that 
almost half of our retail staff work part-time, which has an 
impact on the level of sales-related bonus and commission.

OVERVIEW

*Defined as less than 30 hours a week.

in  senior 

Female  representation 
leadership 
positions  within  our  organisation  is  strong  and 
growing. We are committed to reducing the gap 
by  developing  a  truly  diverse  representation 
(encompassing  gender,  ethnic  and  social 
differentials)  at  all  levels,  from  retail  to  senior 
management,  taking 
individual 
merit.  This includes highly-skilled specialist and 
technical roles in our corporate offices.

into  account 

ALL ELC UK STAFF
36.31% mean pay
21.01% median pay 

88.06% mean bonus
51.31% median bonus 

PROPORTION OF ALL ELC UK STAFF  
RECEIVING A BONUS
             90.91% 
             89.27%

71% 

OF THE 35 HIGHEST BONUS 
PAYMENTS WERE MADE TO 
FEMALES

QUARTILE BREAKDOWN

2.7%

2.9%

Lower

97.3%

Lower Middle

97.1%

7.7%

14.9%

Upper Middle

92.3%

Upper

85.1%

% Males within Quartile
% Females within Quartile

4

2017 GENDER PAY REPORTBREAKING DOWN OUR RESULTS -  
WHITMAN LABORATORIES

“We are committed to gender equality and  
I am pleased to say that Whitman has made 
good progress in taking practical steps to 
improve gender equality over recent years, 
recognising that diversity drives innovation and 
creativity and helps to deliver better results. 
Internally, we are leading the way with three 
supply chain-related Employee Resource 
Groups and the roll-out of our global inclusion 
and diversity training. Whilst the pay gap at 
Whitman is lower than the national average, we 
are keen to reduce this further.” 

Vicky Hughes,  
Executive Manager Human Resources,  
Whitman Laboratories Limited
 

“Whilst the gender pay gap at Whitman 
compares favourably to the national average, 
we recognise that there are still many 
opportunities to reduce this differential. 
Internally, we strive to challenge gender 
stereotyping associated with particular roles. 
In the wider community we work with  
local schools and charities to promote career 
paths in science, technology, engineering  
and maths.” 

John Gander,  
Plant Manager,  
Whitman Laboratories Limited

5

2017 GENDER PAY REPORTBREAKING DOWN OUR RESULTS -  
WHITMAN LABORATORIES

WHITMAN LABORATORIES 

Our  figures  show  that,  on  average,  across  the  whole 
business  men  are  earning  more  than  women.  Our  mean 
gender  pay  gap  is  16.06%  and  our  median  gender  pay 
gap is 10.12%, lower than the national average. The gap is 
largely the result of men occupying more of the technical 
and leadership roles than women. 

There  are  a  number  of  initiatives  that  Whitman 
has in place to encourage more women to apply 
for  and  thrive  in  technical  and  leadership  roles. 
We plan to narrow the pay gap by developing a 
stronger  female  representation  in  these  roles, 
taking into account individual merit.
 
We  will  continue  to  offer  attractive,  competitive 
and  flexible  long  term  career  opportunities  and 
ensure that everyone who works with us develops 
the  confidence  and  capability  to  succeed  on 
whatever career path they choose. 

ALL WHITMAN LABORATORIES STAFF
47.93% mean bonus
16.60% mean pay 
10.62% median bonus  
10.12% median pay  

PROPORTION OF ALL WHITMAN  
LABORATORIES STAFF RECEIVING  
A BONUS
             84.59% 
             88.03%

QUARTILE BREAKDOWN

26.3%

48.6%

Lower

Lower Middle

73.7%

51.4%

32.6%

Upper Middle

67.4%

42.8%

Upper

57.2%

% Males within Quartile
% Females within Quartile

6

2017 GENDER PAY REPORTOUR STRATEGY AND COMMITMENTS 

Gender  equality  and  inclusion,  stemming  from 
the Lauder family values, are central to the way 
we build and manage our business. We believe 
that  an  inclusive  culture  results  in  greater 
innovation,  collective  creativity  and  better 
problem-solving  across  our  organisation,  as 
well as enabling us to connect with our different 
consumers. 

All  of  our  activities  to  promote  inclusion  and 
diversity  are  reported  to  the  Chairman  of  the 
Board  and  we  will  use  existing  governance 
bodies 
to  measure  progress  against  our 
strategy,  holding  ourselves  accountable  for 
achieving our goals.

 

In  November  2017,  Fabrizio  Freda,  President 
and  CEO  of  The  Estée  Lauder  Companies, 
signed  the  “CEO  Action  for  Diversity  and 
Inclusion  pledge,” 
largest  CEO-driven 
business commitment to advancing diversity and 
inclusion within the workplace. 

the 

Our approach includes: 

Our approach includes: 

THE ESTÉE LAUDER COMPANIES IN THE UK  

WHITMAN LABORATORIES 

TALENT MANAGEMENT

•  Leverage  our  Regional  Talent  Council  to  identify  and 
develop strong talent in our business, building future leaders.

• 

Inclusive recruitment and management processes,  end 
to end, to create a diverse slate of candidates for all roles.

•  Expansion of tools such as Unconscious Bias education.

• 

Increased  encouragement  of  ‘leadership  from  every 
chair’  to  amplify  each  person’s  unique  strengths  and 
talents from across all parts of the business.

WORK / LIFE HARMONISATION 

• 

Increased support for all employees returning to work after 
maternity leave and long career breaks, accommodating 
flexible working and part-time requests and offering remote 
training through online portals.

•  Leverage Families@Work UK to support employees who 

are striving to align work and family responsibilities.

• 

Increased communication of our existing agile working 
policies and benefits,  recognising  that  each  person  is 
unique and has different requirements to align with their 
personal commitments.

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

•  Offer continuous long term career development for all 

UK employees through The Apprenticeship Academy.

• 

Increase  take-up  of  18-month  Retail  Management 
Development Programme, focusing on driving retail as 
an aspirational career.

ASSESSING BARRIERS TO ENTRY

•  Continuously  assess  barriers  to  entry  and  use  the 
assessment data to encourage more women to apply 
for roles in currently predominately male departments.

•  Ongoing  work  with  all  suppliers  and  recruitment 
agencies to share our belief in inclusion and diversity 
and create a diverse slate of candidates for all roles.

WOMEN IN STEM / LEADERSHIP

•  Expanded  partnership  with  schools  and  charities, 
through open days and careers events, to inspire girls to 
embark on careers in science, technology, engineering 
and mathematics.

•  Continuously support and encourage women to reach 
their  full  potential,  both  personally  and  professionally, 
through our Women’s Leadership Network. 

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT 

•  Equip line managers for success and offer development 
including 

opportunities 
qualifications, 
apprentices and our Leadership Academy.

through 

•  Continue our Prospect talent development programme, 
offering the opportunity to learn about the supply chain, 
end to end.

7

2017 GENDER PAY REPORT“There are a lot of people in this business 
who started on a beauty counter or in 
distribution. I started with a job 21 years 
ago and now I have a career. It’s our 
family values that truly count, our work 
culture is inclusive and authentic. Many 
people have worked in the business for 
a substantial part of their professional 
working life and the company has a great 
track record when it comes to supporting 
career progression.”

Michaela Horner,  
Regional Head of Distribution and Logistics 
The Estée Lauder Companies UK & Ireland

“I joined The Estée Lauder Companies in 
1990, starting out on counter at Clinique. 
I’ve had the most amazing 28 years 
working across four of The Estée Lauder 
Companies’ brands, receiving incredible 
support every step of the way, and now 
I’m proud to be at the helm of one of  
our largest brands.”

Rachel Baker,  
Vice President/General Manager,  
Clinique UK

This report has been prepared in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information)  
Regulations 2017, which require large employers to publish their gender pay gap data.  
We confirm that the data included in this report is accurate.

“During my 17 years at Whitman 
Laboratories my career has progressed 
from working on the shopfloor to 
becoming a fully qualified manufacturing 
engineer. The company supported my 
apprenticeship and I gained distinctions 
throughout, leading me to be named as 
runner up for ‘apprentice of the year’ at 
The News Business Excellence Awards.  
I am confident that Whitman will continue 
to support my career aspirations and  
I hope to inspire other women working 
in careers involving science, technology, 
engineering and maths to achieve their 
full potential.” 

Claire Cox,  
Production Maintenance Technician
Whitman Laboratories Limited    

Signed: 
Alison Day, Vice President – Finance, UK & Ireland Estée 
Lauder Cosmetics Limited 

Signed: 
Simon Gibson, Executive Manager – Finance  
Whitman Laboratories Limited

8

2017 GENDER PAY REPORT