RELX (UK) Limited 
2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 

Under UK legislation (the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017), companies with 
250 or more employees in Great Britain are required to publish specified UK gender pay gap statistics. RELX 
(UK) Limited is the UK employing entity for the head office functions of RELX Group, a global provider of 
information and analytics for professional and business customers across industries.   

RELX (UK) Limited employs just over 250 people in Great Britain, representing less than 1% of RELX Group’s 
global employee population. This Report for RELX (UK) Limited is published in accordance with the UK 
legislation. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING REQUIREMENT 

The UK gender pay gap is different from equal pay. The UK gender pay gap measures the overall difference 
between the average pay received by men and the average pay received by women in a workplace. It therefore 
reflects the different number of men and women at varying levels of seniority, and doing different roles. The UK 
gender pay gap does not measure or compare pay in like-for-like roles. By contrast, equal pay is a legal 
requirement in the UK to pay men and women the same for equal or similar work. RELX (UK) Limited is 
committed to equal pay and has policies in place to pay employees fairly for the role they do, irrespective of their 
gender. A UK gender pay gap can exist despite men and women being paid equally for the same or similar roles. 

The reason for the total pay gap at RELX (UK) Limited is that there are more men than women in senior roles, 
which are higher paid roles, as illustrated by the Pay Quartile statistics below. Many factors contribute to this. For 
example, the largest functions in RELX (UK) Limited are finance and technology, which both attract more male 
employees. 

The bonus pay gap statistics reflect the fact that opportunities to receive performance-related pay (for example 
annual and share based incentives) increase with seniority and the more senior the population, the higher the 
proportion of men to women.  
 
THE ACTIONS WE ARE TAKING GLOBALLY 

RELX Group is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work place.  To learn more about our vision and 
initiatives, including our efforts to increase representation of women in senior roles, please click here. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP INFORMATION FOR RELX (UK) LIMITED 
 

Pay Quartile  % of 
men  
61.9% 
47.6% 
54.0% 
50.8% 
 
 
 

Upper  
Upper Middle  
Lower Middle  
Lower  
 
 
 

% of 
women  
38.1% 
52.4% 
46.0% 
49.2% 
 
 
 

Median total pay 
gap per quartile 
-5.7% 
-2.8 
6.6% 
7.4% 
 
 
 

 

  Mean total pay gap 

 

  Median total pay gap 
 
  % of men receiving bonus pay 
  % of women receiving bonus pay 
 
  Mean bonus pay gap 
  Median bonus pay gap 

 

20.4% 

6.2% 
 
74.8% 
80.3% 
 
63.5% 
28.7% 

I confirm that the information and data provided in this Report are accurate and in line with the UK legislation.  
Theresa Milner, Head of Human Resources (Corporate) 
 

Notes 
1 The pay quartiles show the gender distribution across RELX (UK) Limited. Each pay quartile contains a quarter of the total RELX (UK) Limited employees, who 
were ranked from highest pay (upper quartile) to lowest pay (lower quartile). 
2 The total pay gap is based on employees’ hourly rate of pay, calculated using their ordinary pay and any bonus pay received in April 2017. Ordinary pay 
includes regular pay (eg base salary and allowances). Bonus pay includes all types of incentive pay (eg annual bonus, commission, share based award pay outs 
and option exercises).  
3 The proportions of men/women receiving bonus pay and the bonus pay gap are based on bonus pay received in the 12 months to 5 April 2017. 
4 The mean is found by adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values. 
5 The median is found by listing the values in order and finding the middle number in the list (or, if there are equal numbers, the mean of the 2 middle 
numbers). 

