            About the James Walker Group   James Walker Group is a dynamic global manufacturing organisation that supplies a vast range of products and services to virtually every sector of industry.  State-of-the-art skills in materials technology - particularly relating to elastomers, polymers, composites and engineering plastics - are central to our success. Our two main business areas encompass:    High performance fluid sealing products and associated knowledge-based services. This highly specialised activity is materials-led, and ranges from R&D and manufacture to product application and plant refurbishment. Our sealing products and expertise help keep industry worldwide running safely and efficiently year-in and year-out.   For more information please visit www.jameswalker.biz .      Railway products and services with trackbed systems for every sector of the rail industry, from high-speed lines and heavy freight routes to metros and light rail. These materials-based systems effectively dampen noise and vibration, and securely support track - with or without mechanical fixings.  For more information please visit www.edilonsedra.com and www.tiflex.co.uk .    Our worldwide family of companies has 11 production, engineering, distribution and customer support sites in the UK, and a further 40 spread across Continental Europe, Australia, New Zealand,  Asia, South Africa and the USA.  At the local level, a close-knit network of James Walker Group companies and official distributors supplies our products and services to over 100 countries. Highly developed e-commerce systems and logistics operations give customers the surety of supply they need.  We  also work in partnership with customers at all levels. The long-term contracts we forge with multinational corporations cover the requirements of their plants across many continents.  Our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy is available to view here and our Anti-Corruption Policy is available to view here. Our latest Gender Pay Gap report is available to view here.     an Embado solution © All content copyright of James Walker Group 2018  HOME | HISTORY | CONTACT US    