 

FINASTRA INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

All  UK  companies  with  more  than  250  employees  must  now  publish  an  annual  report,  which 
states  the  average  hourly  earnings  of  men  and  women  in  their  UK  organization.  The  report 
provides  an  overall  average  for  the  company  and  highlights  any  differences  in  hourly  earnings 
and  bonus  payments  (looking  at  both  mean  and  median  results)  between  male  and  female 
earnings.  

2017 FINASTRA’S UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

As at April 2017, Finastra’s UK gender pay gap statistics are as follows: 

 

ROOT CAUSES OF OUR GENDER PAY GAP 

As  part  of  our  Finastra  INclusion  priorities,  we  have  been  looking  more  closely  into  the  root 
causes of the difference in hourly rates between men and women in the UK: 

1.  At  Finastra,  our  data  shows  that  we  do  not  have  a  pay  difference  between  men  and 
women for doing the same role. In this respect, we have genuine pay equality. However, 
we still have a gender pay gap for the reasons described below.  

2.  London is the Finastra Global Headquarters and therefore there are a higher proportion of 

senior management roles in the UK office, which roles attract higher salaries. 

 

1 

3. 

4. 

In  these  senior  management  and  executive  roles  in  the  UK,  there  are  currently  nearly 
three  times  as  many  men  as  women  holding  these  positions.  This  is  what  our  Finastra 
INclusion agenda seeks to address.  

In addition, we operate a market-based pay strategy which pays higher salaries in fields 
of  activity  that,  in  our  UK  offices,  are  currently  under-represented  by  women  (e.g.  only 
16% of our engineering roles are filled by women).   

OUR COMMITMENT 

At  Finastra  we  are  committed  to  creating  a  fully  inclusive  work  environment  where 
uniqueness is supported, celebrated and nurtured. Following the launch of our Breakthrough: 
INclusion@Finastra  program,  and  specifically  our  Women@Finastra  priority,  our 
commitments have been outlined as follows: 

1.  Grow the percentage of female executive level leaders globally to 25% by 2020; 

2.  Build and nurture an internal pipeline of women who can progress into people leadership 

roles; 

3.  Focus  on  attracting  a  better  balance  of  men  and  women  applicants  for  all  roles, 

particularly roles that are under-represented by women (e.g. engineering); 

4.  Deliver  an  approach  that  drives  the  right  initiatives  and  cultural  shift  to  progress  our 

inclusion priorities; and 

5.  Deliver  culture 

transformation  globally  with  conscious 

leadership 

training  for  all 

employees in support of breaking through barriers. 

We  are  encouraged  with  our  strong  internal  pipeline  of  talent;  from  entry  to  mid  experience 
level we have an almost equal representation of men and women preparing for the next step 
in their career. But we still have more work to do to progress equal representation across all 
grades and levels, both in the UK and globally. We are determined to continue to move the 
needle on gender parity for Finastra.  

 

Shauna O’Handley  
VP HR Global Programs 

I confirm that the information and data provided in this report is accurate and in line with the 
requirements of the Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations. 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

2 

