 

HCL AXON Gender Pay Gap Report 

February 2018 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap report – HCL Axon (UK) 

The aim of this report is to communicate our overall Gender Pay Gap figures as well 
as next steps in addressing the gender pay gap.   
 
This report complies with the current UK regulations on Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
which came into force in 2017. The mandatory Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulations 
stipulate that companies with more than 250 employees need to publish  annually  a 
defined list of figures showing the difference between the median and average pay of 
their male and female employees. Whilst HCL Axon UK does not currently meet the 
minimum  number  of  employees,  it  was  decided,  as  best  practice,  to  proactively 
engage with the regulations going forward. 
 
We will publish in due course this report on our company website and the appropriate 
government website. 
 
It should be noted and understood that this exercise is separate to the definition of 
equal pay and equal pay audits.  The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference 
between men’s and women’s average hourly earnings across an organisation.  It is 
expressed as a percentage of male earnings. 
 
Equal pay relates to men and women in the same employment performing the same 
work or work of equal value must receive equal pay. 
 
The data presented in this report represents the gender pay data for HCL Axon with a 
snapshot date of 5th April 2017 using our HR and payroll records. 
 
There are six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in our organisation. 
 
The median represents the middle value within the data set. The mean represents the 
average value within the data set. 
 
The pay period used is 1st to 30th April 2017. 

Bonus period for the purposes of the bonus calculations:   1 April 2016 to 5th April 
2017 

The total number of relevant employees as of 5th April 2017:  239, 58 of which are 
female (24%) and 181 (76%) are male 

Number of employees who left within the pay period but after 5th April 2017 who have 
been included in the calculations (as advised by ACAS): 2 

Current average UK gender pay gap: 18% as advised by the government. 

All percentage pay gaps are expressed as female pay as a percentage of male pay 
using the following calculation: 

(Male hourly rate - Female hourly rate) 

Male hourly rate 

 
A  positive  percentage  means  men  are  paid  more  than  women  and  a  negative 
percentage means women are paid more than men. 

 

 
HCL Axon UK calculations 

 

 

Difference  in  mean  hourly  rate  of  pay 
(mean gender pay gap): 
Difference  in  median  hourly  rate  of  pay 
(median gender pay gap) 
Difference  in  mean  bonus  pay  (mean 
bonus gender pay gap): 
Difference in median bonus pay (median 
bonus gender pay gap) 

24.72% 
 
13.24% 

48.25% 
 
39.15% 

Bonus Eligibility Gap 

  

               

 

 

74.14% of female employees received a bonus          88.95% of male employees received a bonus 

The bonus calculations used do not, however, factor in that a number of employees in 
the organisation will not be eligible for a bonus payment.  Also the bonus calculations 
are skewed by the fact that they do not factor in that some employees are part time 
and therefore, bonus payments would be pro rata accordingly.   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Percentage of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands: 

 

Lower 
Quartile

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Quartile

Quartile

Upper 
Quartile

Female Male

Female Male

Female Male

Female Male

 

 

38.98% female 

28.81% female 

12.07% female 

61.02% male  

71.19% male  

87.93% male  

 

 

 

 

11.86% female 

88.14% male 

We  note  our  overall  under  representation  of  women,  in  particular  in  the  higher  pay 
quartiles within the organisation as well as the fact that the majority of our workforce 
is male. 

Next steps and recommendations 

HCL  Axon  is  an  equal  opportunities  employer  and  is  committed  to  equality  of 
opportunity in all areas of work. All individuals are treated in a fair and equal manner 
regardless  of  race  including  colour,  nationality,  ethnic  or  national  origin,  religion  or 
belief, disability, age, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity, sex, 
sexual orientation or gender reassignment. 

We recognise that there is a gender imbalance within the organisation and our aim is 
to improve and close the gender pay gap.  We are  reviewing ways in which we can 
address this including through our Equality and Diversity strategies and projects.  

Current  initiatives  include  Stepping  Stones,  a  programme  where  first  time  female 
managers can enrol themselves (up to E3) and develop into managerial roles.  Ascend 
is also a programme that is focused on bringing out leadership skills in E4-E6 female 
employees with HCL senior leadership being mentors to every participant. 

If you have any queries regarding any of the above, please do not hesitate to contact 
your HR Business Partner.   

Declaration: 

We confirm that our data is accurate and has been calculated in accordance with the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.   

Jonathan Hancock - Corporate Vice President 

 

 

Ramachandran Sundararajan – Senior Vice President - HR

 

 

