Ashtons Legal Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

All UK businesses with more than 250 employees are now required to complete a gender 
pay  gap  analysis  and  publish  the  results.  The  aim  is  to  help  ensure  fairness  and 
transparency around the amounts paid to men and women with similar roles. This approach 
is  something  Ashtons  strongly  supports  in  terms  of  seeking  to  become  legal  employer  of 
choice in East Anglia. 

The Ashtons figures that follow are based on a snapshot taken on 5 April 2017, at which 
point the firm had 300 relevant employees.  Our total headcount is closer to 350 but for 
reporting purposes we needed to exclude the partners who own the business and various 
other smaller groups, such as those on maternity leave. 

Gender Headcount Breakdown

Male
19%

Female
81%

Male

Female

The first thing which is quickly apparent is that Ashtons employs a much higher proportion of 
women than men. This is not intentional but just linked to the roles that we need to fill and 
the gender of the people applying for those jobs.   

How are the figures calculated? 
In order to produce the required gender pay gap figures we have to convert everyone’s 
annual salary figure into the equivalent hourly rate and then produce lists of the hourly rates 
paid to men and to women.  

We then report on the differences.  The median gender pay gap is the difference between 
the middle figures in the two lists.  The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the 
averages taken across the full lists.   

The table below shows the firm’s overall median and mean gender pay gap and bonus gap 
based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, and bonuses paid in 
the year to 5 April 2017.  Our figures do show an overall pay gap in favour of men, but for 
perfectly logical reasons which are explained below the data tables. 

Median 
41% 

0% 

Mean 
30% 

55% 

Gender pay gap 

Gender bonus pay 
gap 
The proportion of 
males and females 
receiving a bonus 
payment 

93% 

94% 

Proportion of males and females in each quartile band 

Quartile 

Upper 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower 

Review of our data 

38% 

16% 

5% 

16% 

62% 

84% 

95% 

84% 

Having  collected  and  analysed  our  data,  we  wanted  to  understand  the  reasons  for  our 
gender pay gap.  Broadly this comes down to the majority of our male employees being in 
professionally qualified senior roles. 

As highlighted above, at the time of the analysis 81% of our workforce was female and only 
19% male.  We have many female employees at all salary levels in our business and we 
have more women than men in each salary quartile.  

The  firm  had  57  employees  in  a  Legal  Assistant  /  Legal  Secretary  role,  all  of  who  were 
female.  This is 19% of our workforce.  Our statistics are very similar to others across the 
legal sector.   

The  data  indicates  that  male  and  female  employees  have  equal  access  to  bonuses.  As 
bonuses are largely based on a percentage of salary, it is unsurprising that there is a gender 
pay gap in terms of the mean bonus figure given the proportion of male employees in more 
senior positions.   

When we review the quartiles, our results are very similar to other professional service firms.  
The good news is we have a greater number of females across all quartiles, including those 
in the higher pay bands.  

What are we going to do about our gender pay gap?  

We will continually monitor our gender pay gap and, where possible, take steps to improve it.  
We have introduced pay bands to ensure that all decisions about pay are made fairly and in 
keeping with our commitment. 

As  a  firm,  we  offer  access  to  internal  and  external  training  courses  to  those  who  wish  to 
progress, with no gender bias.  We are also recruiting an increasing number of apprentices, 
some of whom are male, which may in time help to redress the balance.  

Our culture and working environment 

As a firm, we strive to offer our employees the right culture and working environment.  We 
have taken huge strides in offering flexible working to staff and at the latest count 52% of our 
employees did not work the standard 0900 – 1700 Monday to Friday working week.   

We are committed to embedding a culture combining productivity with flexibility into the firm, 
and  helping  employees  to  achieve  their  desired  work-life  balance.  The  introduction  of  our 
Paid Time Off policy has gone a long way to achieving this for some employees, however we 
still have ongoing projects around agile working and are committed to developing this for all 
of our employees.   

We  also  provide  a  generous  and  supportive  package  for  mothers,  fathers,  partners  and 
adopters  which  includes  enhanced  maternity  pay.    Our  aim  is  to  create  a  working 
environment where everyone can be confident, comfortable and supported to thrive, develop 
and succeed.   

