WHAT IS 
THE GENDER PAY GAP 
AND WHY ARE 
WE REPORTING THIS?

It’s now a legal requirement for all employers with 250 or more employees to calculate and publish their 
gender pay and gender bonus gaps as they are on the 5th April each year. The gender pay gap is the measure 
of the difference between the average pay for all women in the organisation compared to all men. It is a 
snapshot based on employees as at 5th April 2017 and is calculated using specific and detailed rules as set out 
in the legislation. It is important to note that the gender pay gap does not show differences in rate of pay for 
comparable jobs. The calculations are an average for all women and men employees, regardless of job role.

At Be At One we are passionate about creating a diverse, inclusive and conscious business. We aim for our 
employees to reflect the communities where we are present and for them to feel they can be themselves when 
working in our bars. We are committed to ensuring everyone has an equal opportunity to develop their career 
at all levels. Our pay and reward structure ensures our people are paid the same regardless of their race, 
background, ethnicity or gender.

WOMEN’S MEAN HOURLY PAY RATE IS 

8.7% LOWER THAN MEN’S

AND

WOMEN’S MEDIAN HOURLY PAY RATE IS 

4.4% HIGHER THAN MEN’S

Although lower than national average gender pay gap, the 8.7% is mainly due to having a higher hourly rate 
in our top quartile due to the fact that our three founders are male. Recently, within our head office we have 
appointed a number of women into our head of department and director positions as they proved to be the 
best candidates for the roles. This will also have an impact on reducing our gender pay gap moving forward.

TOP  

QUARTILE

UPPER MIDDLE 

QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE 

QUARTILE

LOWER 
QUARTILE

61.6% men

63.6% men

74.7% men

69.4% men

38.4% women

36.4% women

25.3% women

30.6% women

We are confident our pay structure is rewarding everyone equally for performance and experience and strive 
to ensure we have a more equal gender balance in our business. The vast majority of our staff work in bars and 
the current gender ratio in the business reflects the ratio of applications we receive. 

WE ARE COMMITTED TO:
• Continuing to find new ways to attract, promote and retain all talent at all levels of the business
• Ensuring there is always diversity within our recruitment team
• Improving the advertising of internal positions and in turn encouraging all of our employees to apply for other roles
• Exploring how we can improve our flexible working policy
• Designing a programme that supports new mothers returning to Be At One after maternity leave

BONUS

WOMEN’S MEAN BONUS PAY IS 

14.4% HIGHER THAN MEN’S

AND

WOMEN’S MEDIAN BONUS PAY IS 

46.67% HIGHER THAN MEN’S

Our commitment to offering equal opportunities means that women are highly represented in our bar 
management roles resulting in them earning more bonus than men. Our bonuses are awarded on performance 
of individual’s and the company’s overall performance. 

67.3% OF MEN RECEIVED BONUS

66.7% OF WOMEN RECEIVED BONUS

AND

