                    About  Products   Aeroengines  Aerostructures  WSPS™  Rockets  Space  Sand Castings  Power Generation  Supporting Materials    Supply  Leadership  Investors   Board of Directors  Key Corporate Governance Documents  Ethics Policy  Shareholder Information  Annual Information  Discussion & Analysis  Information Circular  Press Releases    Media  Careers  Contact     Search    Search          Close           Global Solutions for the Aerospace Market  Available Career Opportunities            Careers At Magellan  Magellan Aerospace is a global, world-class enterprise that provides integrated products and services to the aerospace industry worldwide.  Magellan offers exciting career opportunities in a variety of disciplines.  We know that personal and professional development is fundamental to the success of every individual, and every individual is fundamental to the success of our business.  When you’re part of Magellan, you’re part of a team.  AVAILABLE CAREER OPPORTUNITIES  Magellan Aerospace Employees: In order to receive full attention as a current employee, once you have applied via this career portal, please alert your local HR representative advising on your Candidacy.  Inclusiveness: At Magellan Aerospace, we are committed to fostering an inclusive and accessible environment. If you require an accommodation during the recruitment/interview process (including alternate formats of materials, or accessible meeting rooms or other accommodation), please let us know and we will work with you, to the best of our ability; to meet your needs. Please email in advance to recruitment @magellan.aero with your contact information and an HR representative will contact you.  Diversity and Equality in the Workplace: We are dedicated to building a workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities in which we live and serve. For our US locations, we collect and report EEOC data based on government regulations. In the UK, recent Gender Gap Reporting legislation requires Magellan Aerospace to disclose annually our results.  Note to Employment Agencies: Resume submission is by invitation only. Unsolicited resumes are considered referrals. In order to establish a relationship with Magellan Aerospace, please submit your agency details (specifically search competency and location) to  recruitment @magellan.aero .   You will be contacted if there is an active need for your service and asked to enter into an agency agreement. No fees are ever paid in the absence of an Agency Terms of Engagement.           Corporate Office  3160 Derry Road East
Mississauga, ON
L4T 1A9
T +1 905 677 1889
F +1 905 677 5658 magellan.corporate @magellan.aero    Media Inquiries  Laura Podaima
Director, Marketing Services
& Corporate Communications
T +1 204 788 2831 laura.podaima @magellan.aero    Investor Relations  T +1 905 677 1889 ir @magellan.aero    WSPS™ Inquiries  WSPS™
T +1 204 775 8331 wsps @magellan.aero          Magellan™, Magellan Operating System™, MOS™, Wire Strike Protection System™, Wire Strike™ and WSPS™ are trademarks of Magellan Aerospace.
All content, photography and documents within are the exclusive copyright of Magellan Aerospace Corporation. All rights reserved. Site by Premise .     Email  Back to Top            