Cellmark UK Gender Pay
Report 2017

OUR COMMITMENT
Cellmark UK is a subsidiary of LabCorp, an organisation united 
globally by a shared mission to improve health and improve lives.   

At Cellmark we are proud of our highly skilled employees; our 
work is accomplished each day by a diverse team who work in line 
with the Cellmark values of Integrity, Passion, Inclusivity, Quality 
and Positive Attitude all focused on delivering Service Excellence 
Through Science. 

Cellmark operates from locations across the UK, including 
Abingdon, Chorley, Durham and Huntingdon; we are committed 
to an inclusive and inspiring environment where benefits-related 
rewards, including pay, are based on an individual’s performance, 
skills and competencies.  We are committed to ensuring that 
women have the same access to training, compensation and 
leadership opportunities as their male colleagues and that all 
staff have access to the learning and mentoring necessary to help 
them advance. In short, we are focused on creating a workplace 
that offers the potential for all of our exceptional employees to 
develop professionally, to achieve their extraordinary potential.

Measures of Success

GENDER BALANCE

The Cellmark organisation is 
predominantly female with an 
employee population of 63% female 
and 37% male. 

63%

FEMALE

GENDER BALANCE

37%

MALE

PARTNERSHIP
Cellmark is proud to be part of the LabCorp organisation, 
which is increasingly providing opportunities across its 
employee population for individual growth and development.

PROGRESSIONS AND PROMOTIONS
Over the past year (2017 – 2018) there were 107 
progressions and promotions across the Cellmark 
organisation with 73 (68%) being realised by females 
and 34 (32%) by males. 

2

Understanding the Pay Gap

Our gender pay report highlights some areas where we can 
improve further. 

Our gender mix varies across each quartile of our population, 
with a disproportionate number of senior positions held by male 
employees, contributing to the pay gap. 

It is encouraging to see that females are well represented in 
the upper middle quartile, which illustrates the progression of 
women through the Company development structure. 

A NOTE ON EQUAL PAY
It is important to understand that we are committed to equal pay 
for equal work, which has been mandated since 1970 in the UK. 
We routinely review our compensation and employment practices 
to ensure equal pay. The gender pay gap is different. It is a 
measure that shows the difference in the average pay between 
all men and women within a workforce.

Gender Pay Gap Summary *

CELLMARK UK OVERALL

GENDER PAY GAP

FEMALE

MALE

Proportion of relevant employees*

62.95%

37.05%

18% 14.08%

MEAN

MEDIAN

Mean average: 

Taking the average of the data cut

Median average: 

Taking the middle of the data cut, 

when put in numerical order 

*Active fully paid employees employed by Cellmark as of 5 April 2017.

Proportion of Males and Females  
by Quartile Pay Band

CELLMARK: PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle 

Quartile

Upper Middle 

Quartile

Upper Quartile

MALE

FEMALE

20%

80%

40%

60%

36%

64%

53%

47%

Quartile Pay Band is the sum of total amounts received by the UK workforce.

Taking Action

Cellmark has been taking action to support opportunities for 
women across the organisation. We believe an environment that 
creates opportunities and career choices for all people enables 
us to grow and strengthen. 

WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
Scheduled for introduction in 2018, LabCorp’s Women in 
Leadership program includes a series of initiatives to  
strengthen an inclusive environment where women want to  
join our organisation, grow their careers and contribute to 
LabCorp’s long-term success. The initiatives address a variety  
of opportunities, including: 

• Strengthening the female talent pipeline with specific 

recruitment activities

• Additional development opportunities for women leaders
• Awareness programs for both female and male employees
• Exposure and engagement programs for female leaders
• Measurement programs to track progress.

Taking Action (continued)

FLEXIBLE WORK PRACTICES
We support all of our employees by cultivating a flexible, 
modern work environment. Our employment approach 
includes remote working and part-time opportunities. We 
continue to support our staff to achieve a better work-life 
balance through the provision of benefits and increased 
focus on wellbeing through the Wellbeing pages of the 
Company intranet CellPoint. Our ultimate goal is to create 
a truly integrated organisation that enables employees to 
contribute and realise their potential.

 Continuing the 
 Commitment

Cellmark is a people-based organisation, where our success is based 
on our ability to attract and retain top scientific, forensic, analytical, 
technical and operational talent from across the UK.

We view our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace as an 
essential feature of how we work and how we embrace our shared 
opportunities together.

We will continue our commitment by addressing our 
gender pay gap and measuring our progress.

Mark Johnson 
Mark Johnson 
Human Resources Director 

