2017 GENDER PAY 
GAP REPORT

E X P E R T S   W I T H   I M PA C T TM

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017     FTI Consulting, Inc.      II

BUILDING A DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE  
CULTURE TO ACCELERATE GROWTH

Kevin Hewitt
Chairman, Europe, the Middle 
East and Africa Region

Holly Paul
Chief Human Resources Officer

To meet our robust growth goals for our UK business, we 
must attract and retain professionals with the diverse set of 
expertise our clients and teams require in order to be successful. 
Professionals who not only enhance our brand in the market but 
also allow us to continue to attract and retain top talent are the 
core components needed to allow FTI Consulting to be a vibrant, 
progressive and well-respected organisation for years to come. 

We recognise that our gender pay gap is not acceptable, and 
we need to address this issue head on, with transparency, so 
that we can identify and confront the drivers contributing to the 
disparity. Creating a workplace with robust diversity and inclusion 
and gender parity is something FTI Consulting believes in. It is a 
stated value of the firm, and it is the right thing for us and all of 
our stakeholders. 

Meaningful change takes time, and, while there is still a great deal 
of work to do, we will not waver in our commitment to remain 
transparent and accountable for our gender pay gap. We will 
work to remove barriers so that we are able to continue to attract 
and retain the diverse group of professionals needed to deliver 
innovative solutions to our clients and grow our business. I, 
along with FTI Consulting's entire Executive Committee, remain 
committed to this work and to our success.

Being an inclusive employer is an essential part of FTI 
Consulting’s growth strategy. We recognise that our future 
success depends on our ability to provide definitive and diverse 
expertise to our clients, which can be achieved only if we foster a 
culture of diversity among our talent pool.  

We have been working tremendously hard to create an inclusive 
and high-performing culture where our professionals can grow 
their careers and achieve their full potential. While there has been 
focus on creating a more diverse and inclusive culture within our 
organisation, the gender pay gap indicates to us that we need to 
do more to accelerate the pace of change.   

Our pay gap is the result of having a greater proportion of men in 
more senior level, higher paying roles when compared to women. 
There has been improvement, but progress has been slow within 
the professional services industry for a variety of reasons that we 
are actively confronting. 

Creating an inclusive environment is something we champion at 
FTI Consulting. Our ultimate goal is to achieve gender equality by 
affecting culture change across our organisation. Together, we 
can close the gap.

Kevin Hewitt

Holly Paul

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT     FTI Consulting, Inc.      1

OUR  
PAY GAP

Based on the UK government’s methodology, FTI Consulting’s 
median gender pay gap is 31%. Unlike equal pay, which refers 
to paying men and women the same amount for the same, or 
similar, work a gender pay gap is the difference in average pay 
between men and women in an organisation. Like many other UK 
employers, FTI Consulting’s gender pay gap is the result of gender 
imbalance due to: 

•  Having more men than women in senior-level, higher paying 

roles 

• Having more women in junior-level, lower paying roles  

EQUAL PAY: Men and 
women are paid the same 
amount for the same, or  
similar work.

GENDER PAY GAP: 
The difference in the 
average pay between men 
and women in the same 
organisation over a period 
of time.

FTI Consulting has programmes and policies in place to ensure that our approach to pay, 
and rewards for our people, is based on fairness. We also have strong firm values and 
leaders who are committed to creating a workplace that champions diversity, inclusion 
and gender parity because we believe it is in the best interests of all our stakeholders.  

At FTI Consulting, we are committed to ensuring that men and women are paid equally 
for doing the same work. FTI Consulting's internal analysis of all employees below Senior 
Managing Director shows that the firm pays equitably across all genders for similar 
positions. The UK pay gap legislation specifies that only employees, not Senior Managing 
Directors or partner equivalents, should be included in the pay gap disclosure. Our 2018 
Gender Pay Gap Report will include all Senior Managing Directors. 

2      FTI Consulting, Inc.     2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

GENDER 
PAY GAP

The total FTI Consulting UK-based population for gender pay reporting* is 701 
professionals with a female/male split of 306 (43.7%)/395 (56.3 %).

Percentage of female/male in each pay quartile

Gender pay gap

37.1

62.9

52.0

48.0

Lower

Lower middle

31.4% 

Mean hourly pay gap

31.0%

Median hourly pay gap

69.8%

Mean bonus pay gap

51.6%

Median bonus pay gap

20.5

Percentage of female/male receiving a bonus

56.6

43.4

79.5

Upper middle

Upper

   % Female
   % Male

85.2%

Received a bonus

90.6%

Received a bonus

The information provided in this report is for UK-based employees. FTI Consulting has taken our analysis a step further by completing a global pay gap 
analysis. We found that our results for the UK are representative of our global pay gap of 30%.

* Gender pay data have been reported for all "full-pay relevant" employees as of April 5, 2017, in accordance with legislation. The analysis includes employees below partner  
level only.

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT    FTI Consulting, Inc.      3

ACTIONS TO  
ACCELERATE CHANGE

Making Gender Parity A Business Priority

Gender parity has been a priority for FTI Consulting for several years, and we are committed 
to making significant progress by reaching a target of 100 women Senior Managing 
Directors by 2020, which represents a 60% increase over the next three years. Our 
Executive Committee has also committed to building three-year pipelines of potential 
female Senior Managing Director candidates so that we have a strong pool of talent 
for promotion. At the executive leadership level, all succession planning for Executive 
Committee roles include qualified female candidates on the interview slate.

Committed To Recruiting Top Female Talent

We know there is a lot of work to do to achieve gender parity in our senior ranks, and 
we are taking proactive steps to ensure we address gender parity when recruiting high-
performing women. In the UK, we have pursued efforts to ensure that our advertisements 
contain gender neutral language, and, wherever possible, that our interview panels 
have female representation. Globally, we are striving to expand our targeted outreach 
channels to build strong female candidate pipelines, maintain our 50/50 balanced 
campus hiring from universities, deliver unconscious bias training and remove 
candidate names from resumes to ensure females are visible at all stages of the 
recruitment process. 

4      FTI Consulting, Inc.     2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

ACTIONS TO  
ACCELERATE CHANGE

Developing, Promoting And Retaining Talented Women

At FTI Consulting, we strive to create a diverse and inclusive culture that enables our 
professionals to grow in their careers. Our efforts are aimed to support our FTI Women’s 
Initiative Network (“FTI WIN”), Diversity Ambassadors Programme and Balance 
Network. We continuously seek feedback from our professionals through culture focus 
groups and surveys, and actively address identified needs. As a result, we have been focused 
on talent development, and we are emphasising the importance of everyday coaching 
and feedback. We have also established career development and training opportunities at 
every level to help our women progress in their careers. Specifically, our FTI WIN Managing 
Director Transformational Leadership Programme helps prepare our women for success 
in their leadership roles. In addition, we have recently launched a flexibility campaign and 
enhanced parental leave programmes in support of work-life balance.

FTI Consulting is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive culture that
allows all of our professionals to develop the skills and capabilities they need to
achieve their full potential. We are far from delivering the results we aspire to, but
our understanding of what’s driving our gender pay gap, and the actions we can
take to close this gap, is improving. Our gender pay gap results are an important
reminder that we still have work to do, but we are encouraged by the progress we
have made and our commitment to gender parity across every level of the firm.

. 

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT      FTI Consulting, Inc.      5

FTI WIN
W O M E N ’ S   I N I T I A T I V E 

Launched in 2013, FTI WIN offers career training, professional development, mentorship, 
networking and community outreach opportunities across the globe to empower our 
female professionals to reach their highest potential and develop best-in-class leadership 
capabilities. Since its inception, professionals across the FTI Consulting network have 
worked diligently to build participation and local programmes by participating in local 
office meetings, hosting networking events with clients and developing core committee 
initiatives to support our women.  

 

FTI WIN Managing Director Transformational Leadership Programme

The FTI WIN Managing Director Transformational Leadership Programme seeks to support 
and further develop a selected group of high-performing women Managing Directors at FTI 
Consulting. The programme is designed to assist selected participants’ understanding of 
our firm’s business strategy and priorities, build upon internal and external relationships, 
and aid in developing leadership skills and knowledge. Since its inception in 2014, we 
have launched two successful FTI WIN Managing Director programmes. Out of the two 
completed development programmes, 16 women have been promoted to Senior  
Managing Director.

6      FTI Consulting, Inc.     2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

EMPOWERING OUR WOMEN  
TO ACCELERATE CHANGE

" This was a profoundly effective segment - the experiences shared were 
illuminating and relevant. It is very important for us to hear directly from 
senior female leadership. Some of the specific takeaways for me: Maintain 
a peripheral view, be fearless and take risks, ask for what you want, use 
'differences' to your advantage, embrace change and allocate credit 
appropriately to build teams."
  - FTI WIN MANAGING DIRECTOR TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP PROGRAMME PARTICIPANT

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT      FTI Consulting, Inc.      7

ADDRESSING  
THE GAP

Accelerating Change By Championing Diversity & Inclusion From The Top
A firm’s leaders are the culture creators who set the tone for what is important. At FTI Consulting, 
the first area where we addressed diversity and inclusion was at the leadership ranks. Twenty-
four percent of our Executive Committee is female, two of our five business segments are led by 
women, EMEA’s leadership team is 31% female and our Board of Directors is 25% female. We are 
proud of the accomplishments of our leading women professionals, who are regularly recognised 
externally for excellence in their field. Select 2017 awards and accolades include:

•   Julia Harrison named a Global Leader in Consulting by Consulting magazine in the award’s  

inaugural year

•   Dawn Hall named a Future Leader by Consulting magazine’s Women Leaders in Consulting awards 
•   Shannon Stucky Pritchett and Tanya Meerovich recognised at the eighth annual Emerging 

Leaders Awards by The M&A Advisor

•   Ruth Steedman named an Expert in the Euromoney Transfer Pricing Expert Guide
•   Carrie Distler recognised as a Leading Patent Litigation Expert Witness by Intellectual Asset 

Management magazine

•   Dawna Wright and Meloria Meschi named Leading Quantum of Damages Experts by  

Who’s Who Legal 

•   Wendy Shapss named Insurance & Reinsurance Expert by Who’s Who Legal 
•   Jean Chow-Callam, Lindi Jarvis and Dawna Wright named Leading Forensic Accountants by  

Who’s Who Legal 

•   Shannon Stucky Pritchett named a Rising Star of the Profession by Consulting magazine
•  Rachel Rosenblatt named to PRNews’ Top Women in PR list

8      FTI Consulting, Inc.      2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

WOMEN & DIVERSITY  
FOCUSED CHARITIES

FTI Consulting supported the following charities and causes through  
donations or volunteering in 2017

• A Better Chance

• Her Justice

•  Susan G. Komen®, Pittsburgh

• Action Breaks Silence

• Hispanic Federation

•  Susan G. Komen®Race for 

 the Cure

•  Taylor Bennett Foundation

•  Women's Bar Foundation 

Association

•  Women’s Housing and 

Economic Development 
Corporation

• You Make It

•  African American Fire Fighter's 

• The India Center Foundation

Historical Society

• ArbitralWomen

• Latino Community Foundation

•  The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & 

•  Asian/Pacific Islander Domestic 

Transgender Community Center

Violence Resource Project

•  Breast Cancer Care Fashion 

Show

•  Brigham and Women's Hospital

• Diversity Role Models

• Dress for Success Worldwide

• Every Mother Counts

• Gay Men's Health Crisis 

• Getting Out and Staying Out 

• Girls on the Run, DC

•  Girl Scouts of Western 

Washington

• Girls on the Run of the Rockies

• Maggie's Place

• March of Dimes Foundation

• Mary's Place Seattle

• Mater Chicks in Pink

• Out for Australia

• Out Leadership

• Pittsburgh Action Against Rape

• Sisters For Change

• Step Up Women's Network

•  Susan G. Komen®, California,  

San Francisco Bay Area Affiliate

• Susan G. Komen®, Chicago

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017     FTI Consulting, Inc.      9

E X P E R T S   W I T H   I M PA C T TM

About FTI Consulting
 FTI Consulting is an independent global business advisory firm dedicated to helping organisations manage change, mitigate risk 
and resolve disputes: financial, legal, operational, political & regulatory, reputational and transactional. Individually, each practice 
is a leader in its specific field, staffed with experts recognised for the depth of their knowledge and a track record of making an 
impact. Collectively, FTI Consulting offers a comprehensive suite of services designed to assist clients across the business cycle 
— from proactive risk management to the ability to respond rapidly to unexpected events and dynamic environments. For more 
information, visit www.fticonsulting.com and connect with us on Twitter (@FTIConsulting), Facebook and LinkedIn.

www.fticonsulting.com  
 

© FTI Consulting LLP 2018. All rights reserved.
001780

