The Seckford Foundation
Gender Pay Gap Report 2016/17

In terms of  addressing this gap The Seckford Foundation 
is focussed on equality and fairness and is mindful of  this 
in all of  our recruitment exercises.  As with many other 
smaller organisations we have fewer senior roles with a lower 
turnover in these roles compared to our more junior ones.  
If  we look further into the data we can see that of those 
in our higher paid roles (*£20 per hour and above) 60% of 
these are women and 40% men.

Focussing on the quartiles, our percentage of  women in the 
lower and mid-range is much higher than that of  the upper 
range.  Again, this reflects the higher number of  women in 
our caring and support roles. 

Gender balance of  each pay quartile

Upper
quartile

 

Upper

mid quartile

Lower

mid quartile

Lower
quartile

57.32%
  F 
           42.68%
  M 
69.51%
  F 
     30.49%
  M 
69.51%
  F 
     30.49%
  M 
  F 
79.27%
  M  20.73%

The report presents some findings that we will consider 
in more depth to ensure that we provide equality of 
opportunity to both men and women. We have a robust 
recruitment process in place, as well as ensuring that internal 
development and progression is based on performance 
assessment. To assist us with future development in this 
area we are considering how improving our management 
information could help, particularly looking both at 
recruitment and turnover data. This will form part of  our 
plan over the next few years to seek to address some of the 
potential issues that have been identified.

The Seckford Foundation is made up of  the Seckford 
Almshouses, Woodbridge School, and the central team.

As an organisation we are quite unique in that our business 
covers two very different sectors, and therefore it is difficult 
to provide meaningful commentary on how we compare 
with other organisations. This means that our Gender Pay 
Gap reporting includes many different roles with a variety 
of  rates of  pay. 

It is important to remember that gender pay gap is different 
to equal pay, as equal pay deals with pay differences between 
men and women who carry out the same job, similar jobs, or 
work of  equal value. 

The following percentages show the difference between 
the mean or median hourly rate of  pay of  male full-time 
employees and that of female full-time employees. We have 
a total headcount of  317 split 32% male and 68% female.  

Mean gender pay gap

18.9%

Median gender pay gap

43.75%

To put our results in to context; we have more women than 
men in our lower paid roles (largely in the the Seckford 
Almhouses in care roles or domestic/catering support 
roles or term time part time school support roles).  If  we 
employed an equal number of  men and women in these 
roles this would reduce our gender pay gap as the pay rates 
would be the same whether for male or female employees.  
It is widely recognised that women are more likely to work 
part time, and across the UK as a whole, part time work can 
be relatively lower paid.

*Higher paid roles within the Foundation

Women 60%      Men 40%

Looking at the higher paid roles within the Foundation there 
are slightly more women than men in these roles, however, 
our Executives, who are our top earners, are made up of  
only men.  In addition to this, of  our top 5 earners overall, 
4 of  them are men.  This gives some context as to why the 
median pay gap is 43.75%.

