 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
2017 
 
As  part  of  our  commitment  to  build  an  inclusive  and  diverse  business  we  are  committed  to  fostering  an  inclusive  environment  and  promoting  equal 
opportunities for all. The Senior Leadership team in the UK has developed a detailed action plan outlining how we will build a more inclusive culture with a key 
focus on gender balance. 
 
Under UK legislation that came into force in April 2017 we are required to publish data about our gender pay gap. Gender pay  gaps relates to differences in 
average hourly male and female pay and bonuses and does not compare the pay received by men and women, or groups of people, for doing the same or 
equivalent work, known as equal pay. 
 
OUR RESULTS 
 

 

 
MEAN PAY GAP 
  
The mean pay gap is the difference in the average hourly pay rate for all 
men employed by LMH UK Ltd and for all women employed by LMH UK 
Ltd. 
 
 

 
MEDIAN PAY GAP 
 
The median pay gap is the difference in the hourly rate between the pay of 
the middle female employee and the pay of the middle male employee when 
male and female employees are listed in order of hourly pay rate. 
 

                            
 

  

 

14.8% 

                              
   

 

20.3% 

 
QUARTILES 
 
This shows the proportion of males to females in each pay quartile in the Company. All relevant employees are ranked from the lowest rate of pay to the 
highest, then the list is spilt into four equal sections and the percentage of male and female employees in each quartile is calculated. 
 

 

 

 

Lower pay quartile 

Lower middle pay quartile 

Upper middle pay quartile 

Upper pay quartile 

 

 

 

33.3% 

 

66.7% 

 

 

14.9% 

 

85.1% 

 

 

2.7% 

 

97.3% 

 

 

14.9% 

 

85.1% 

 
 
BONUS GAP 
 

 
MEAN BONUS GAP 
  
The mean bonus gaps tells us the difference in the average bonus payment 
for men and women. 
 
 

68.7% 

 

  

                            
 
 
MEDIAN BONUS GAP 
 
The median bonus gap is the difference in the bonus between the middle 
female employee and the middle male employee when male and female 
employees are listed in order of bonus payment. 
 

                              
 

 

2.4% 

 
  PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN WHO RECEIVE A BONUS 
 
This calculation shows the proportion of females that received a bonus 
compared to the total female population. 
 
 
 
 
                                               98% 
 

 
PERCENTAGE OF MEN WHO RECEIVE A BONUS 
 
This calculation shows the proportion of males that received a bonus 
compared to the total male population. 
 
 
 
 
                                               97.2% 

 
 
At first glance the difference in gender pay between men and women seems to be significant but overall this illustrates structural effects derived from our 
integrated business model and of the industry in which we operate rather than any pay inequality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The main drivers of this gap are as follows: 
 

  The  material  handling  industry  in  which  we  operate  is  a  predominantly  male  environment  with  entry  levels  through  service  and  sales  engineering 

routes.  

  There  are  more  men  than  women  in  management  roles  as  this  again  reflects  the  experience  that  will  have  been  gained  in  sales  and  service 

environments that are predominantly male. 

  Linde Sterling Ltd has many back office administration functions that concentrate, in various areas including - Finance, Service, Stores, Sales, Hire 

and HR. Reflecting the national trend, there are more women than men in lower level administration roles where remuneration levels will be lower. 

  The figures include sales commission  where the recipients  are  predominately male and management bonuses where the majority of recipients  are 

also male. 

  The basic salary figures are net of salary sacrifice contributions for pensions and child care vouchers that affect basic pay. 
  There is a slight difference in the percentage of women and men receiving a bonus but the bonus pay gap shows that there are more males receiving 

higher bonuses than females 

 
 
OUR COMMITMENT TO CLOSING THE GAP 
 
Attracting talented women into our industry is a challenge but we are committed both to equality and encouraging a diverse workforce. We have developed 
initiatives which we hope will encourage more females into the industry and initiatives to address the gaps that have been identified. 
 

  The  Company  has  introduced  a  set  of  Values  and  Leadership  Principles  in  a  drive  to  change  company  culture  and  has  launched  a  new  gender 

neutral appraisal system based on these values. 

  Over  recent  years  we  have  increased  the  amount  of  women  managers  and  we  will  continue  to  develop  more  women  managers  as  part  of  the 

succession plan.  

  Continue  to  recruit  from  a  wider  range  of  industries  and  we  have  extended  the  training  for  new  sales  and  service  staff  to  integrate  them  into  the 

business in a quicker and more effective manner. 

  Continue  to  monitor  the  differences  in  gender  pay  taking  actions  where  appropriate.  Consider  initiatives  to  identify  and  remove  barriers  to  female 
advancement.  We have created the new position of Talent Development Manager for the whole business to ensure its talent development processes 
are gender neutral. 

  Over the past 18 months 3 female first line managers have received management training to further their development. 
  Competency based job descriptions and competency based interviews have been introduced to promote more effective gender neutral recruitment. 
  We have reviewed our bonus structures to be gender neutral. 

 
I confirm that the contents of this report are accurate. 
 

 
 
Craig Williamson 
Managing Director 
Linde Sterling Ltd 
 

 

