Gender Pay Report (31 March 2017) 

 

Background Information  

The  Equality  Act  2010  (Specific  Duties  and  Public  Authorities)  Regulations  2017  (S1 
2017/353)  require  public  sector  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  to  publish  their 
gender pay gap information.  There is a similar requirement of the private sector. 

1 

1.1 

1.2 

As  an  employer  with  a  headcount  of  more  than  250  the  Council  is  required  to  publish  the 
following data annually, as at 31 March. 

  The mean gender pay gap 

  The median gender pay gap 

  The mean bonus gender pay gap (not applicable) 

  The median bonus gender pay gap (not applicable) 

  The proportion of males receiving a bonus payment (not applicable) 

  The proportion of females receiving a bonus payment (not applicable) 

  The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band 

The information must be published on both the Council’s website and available for at least 3 
years and on the designated government website. 

The Council does not pay bonuses and therefore there is no calculation for these areas. 

2 

2.1 

SDC Data 

The  SDC  gender  pay  reporting  figures  have  been  calculated  using  the  standard 
methodologies  used  in  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations 
2017. 

 

2.2 

Gender Profile 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

41%59%Workforce Gender ProfileMenWomen2.3 

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gaps 

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

 
 
2.4 

Pay Quartiles 

20.59% 

26.24% 

SDC Pay Quartiles by Gender 

Quartile  Males 

Females 

Description 

Lower 
Quartile 

Lower 
Middle 
Quartile 

Upper 
Middle 
Quartile 

Upper 
Quartile 

 

24.64% 

75.36% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly 
rate places them at or below the lower quartile 

29.85% 

70.15% 

43.28% 

56.72% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but at 
or below the median 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly 
rate  places  them  above  the  median  but  at  or 
below the upper quartile 

69.12% 

30.88% 

Includes  all  employees  whose  standard  hourly 
rate places them above the upper quartile 

3 

Commentary 

3.1 

Under the Equal Pay Act 1970, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

 

the same or broadly similar work; 

  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 

  work of equal value. 

SDC  has  a  clear  policy  of  paying  employees  equally  for  the  same  or  equivalent  work, 
regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). In order to achieve this it: 

  operates  job  evaluation  methodology  to  grade  all  jobs,  using  the  National  Joint  Council 

Job Evaluation Scheme to ensure that jobs are paid fairly; 

  ensures that allowances are awarded fairly and consistently across the Council;  

 

re-evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

 

3.2 

3.3 

SDC are therefore be confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and 
women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its gender pay gap  may be as a 
result  of  the  roles  in  which  men  and  women  undertake  within  the  Council  and  the  salaries 
that these roles attract. 

Across  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole,  men  are  more  likely  than  women  to  be  in  senior  roles 
(especially very senior  roles at the top  of  organisations), while women are more likely than 
men  to  be  in  front-line  roles  at  the  lower  end  of  the  organisation.  This  trend  is  reflected  in 
the  Council’s  role  make  up  with  the  majority  of  administrative  and  customer  services  roles 
being undertaken by women as demonstrated in the graph below in grades K, L and M. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.4 

This  pattern  is  further  exacerbated  in  the  lower  quartile  by  the  fact  that  the  Council 
outsources  many  of  its  operational  functions  such  as  refuse  and  recycling  and  street 
cleaning;  all  areas  of  work  which  traditionally  attract  male  employees.    If  these  roles  were 
employed directly by SDC then there would be an increased number of men within the lower 
two quartiles and it is likely that the gender pay gap would be significantly reduced.  

3.5  Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected their 
career progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part 
time,  and  many  of  the  jobs  that  are  available  across  the  UK  on  a  part-time  basis  are 
relatively low paid.  The Council has a scheme of considering job-share for all vacancies and 
only  in  relatively  few  posts  is  job  share  not  appropriate.    In  addition,  SDC  has  a  Flexible 
Working Procedure which applies to all employees regardless of their role and gender. 

3.6 

Another  factor  restricting  the  movement  of  women  into  the  more  senior  roles  within  the 
Council is  the  flattening  of  management  structures  and  hierarchies  which has  restricted  the 
available opportunities.  This is conflated by similar changes across the public sector meaning 
that  turnover  in  senior  roles  has  reduced  significantly  again  restricting  opportunities  for 
promotion. 

4 

Benchmarking 

 

4.1.1  The following table identifies comparable information in order to provide a benchmark for the 

SDC figures. 

 

Gender Pay Reporting (Figure 1) 

 

SDC 

All Sectors 

Public 
Sector 

Coventry & 
Warks. LEP 

Area 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 
Median Gender Pay Gap 

20.59% 
26.24% 

17.4% 
18.5% 

17.7% 
19.4% 

21.4% 
26.4% 

 

 

0102030405060EDStat HOSHOSGrade CGrade DGrade EGrade FGrade GGradeHGrade IGrade JGrade KGrade LGrade MHeadcountGrade and Gender Analysis31 March 2017MenWomen