 

Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Pay Gap legislation (developed by the Government Equalities Office) introduced in April 
2017 requires all employers of 250 or more employees to publish their gender pay gap for workers 
in scope as of 31 March 2017.   

The Department for Education’s (DfE) pay approach supports the fair treatment and reward of all 
staff irrespective of gender.  
 
Gender Make-up of the Department 

DfE’s Gender Pay Gap 

 

 

 

DfE uses Civil Service grades ranging from Executive Assistant (admin level grade) to Senior Civil 
Servant (executive level grade).  Grades vary according to the level of responsibility that staff have.  
Each grade has a set pay range with pay gaps in between grades.  Staff are expected to move 
through the pay range for their grade, therefore the longer period of time that someone has been in 
a grade the more we would expect them to earn irrespective of their gender.   

The department’s pay gap compares favourably when compared with the Civil Service pay gap of 
11.9% (mean), 13.6% (median) as published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) in March 
2016.  The March 2016 published ONS data for DfE has a mean pay gap of 5.9% and a median pay 
gap of 4%, however the ONS data uses a different methodology for calculating these figures and 
does not include DfE staff in Executive Agencies or European School Teachers.   

 

Published: July 2017 

Bonus Pay 

The department’s performance awards were paid as a set value depending on grade and 
performance level and irrespective of gender.  The bonus gaps show that there is no pay gap 
between men and women using the median average and a small gap in favour of men when using 
the mean calculation (0.8%).   

 

Pay by Quartiles 

Hourly Pay Quartiles   

 

 

 

 

 

42%  58%1 
All Staff  
(March 17) 

39%  61% 

39%  61% 

45%  55% 

47%  53% 

Lower Quartile 

Lower Middle 

Quartile 

Upper Middle 

Quartile 

Upper Quartile  

 
61% of women are in the lower quartile of DfE pay and 53% are in the upper quartile.  As 59% of 
the department’s staff are women this illustrates that the pay gap is largely as a result of a higher 
concentration of women in more junior grades.  The department’s Senior Civil Servants are made 
up of 55% women, however men have a longer period of time spent in Senior Civil Service grade 
when compared with women leading to higher levels of pay as men have had more time to progress 
through the pay grade in a SCS grade. 

                                                 

 

1 This figure differs from the percentage of women in DfE quoted above as it includes European School Teachers and 
only encompasses staff who have received full pay in March 2017.   
 
 

2 

Work on eradicating the Gender Pay Gap  
The department and the senior leadership team are committed to improving our gender pay gap and 
are looking at a number of initiatives to reduce the gender pay gap, these include: 

Active support for women returning to work following maternity 
or adoption leave. We offer shared parental leave, job share or 
part time opportunities, and have refreshed our guidance to 
help line managers ensure those returning from 
maternity/adoption leave feel supported and welcomed. 

Ensuring women have the opportunity and ability to progress 
their careers within the department through talent management 
schemes, such as the Positive Action Pathway that is open to 
all from protected characteristic groups. 

Supporting Network 58, our departmental Women’s equality 
Network. Network 58 actively promote gender equality, run 
upskilling events, promote campaigns and hold talks to inspire 
and support other women in the department. 

Taking targeted action as part of the annual pay increase to 
ensure pay differences in grades are reduced where possible. 

Reviewing our recruitment processes, focusing on how to 
attract women into the Senior Civil Service, anonymising the 
application process to reduce unconscious bias and ensuring all 
interviewers have undergone unconscious bias training. 

Ensuring that gender equality is a central point in the creation of 
our departmental Diversity and Inclusion strategy. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

3 

Staff included in the Gender Pay Gap data 
Included in the data are the department’s employed staff and European School teachers (who are 
paid via the DfE payroll). There are no contractors paid via the payroll and therefore no contractor 
information has been included in the calculations.  

It has not been possible to include fees paid staff (who are executive level staff who are paid a set 
rate to deliver a particular role or project) in the calculations due to the limited data we have 
available.  We intend to review the way we store information for this group of individuals to enable 
their data to be included in future publications.   

 

© Crown copyright 2017 

 
 

4 

