              Home  Sitemap        Product Search         Products    New Products  Harvest  Evo  Mosaic  Fine China  Finest Vitrified Tableware  Cutlery  Bormioli Rocco  Case Studies  Custom Design  Caring for your products     Contact Us    Brochures    PDFs and downloads  Issuu ebooks     News    Product News  Company News  People News  Museum News     Careers    The Company    About Dudson  Offices and Distribution  Manufacturing  Dudson Museum  Dudson Factory Outlet  Environment  Social Responsibility       home  ›  The Company  ›  About Dudson  ›  Gender Pay Gap      Gender Pay Gap Report  Dudson Ltd operates within the ceramic manufacturing sector
producing ceramic tableware for the worldwide hospitality
industry.  The company is required by law to conduct Gender Pay Gap
Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information)
2017.  This involves preparing calculations to show the
difference between the average earnings of all males and females in
our company. The company however has no examples of differential
pay for male and females working in the same job role.  We are required to publish the results on our own website and on
a government website.  The information shown below is based on
our data as at 5 th April 2017.  At this date we
employed 376 people of which 156 were female (41.5%) and 220 were
male (58.5%).  GENDER PAY GAP CALCULATIONS  PAY - HOURLY RATE  The Mean Gender Pay Gap  Mean averages are useful because they place the same value on
every number they use; giving a good overall indication of the
gender pay gap, however very large or small pay rates can dominate
and distort the answer.  The mean gender pay gap for April
2017 was 21.1% slightly higher than the UK average for all
employees of 18.1% in 2016.  The key drivers behind the mean gender pay gap are the lower
representation of women at board level within the organisation and
especially our difficulty in recruiting women in operations,
technical and engineering disciplines.  All recruitment
including directors and non-executive directors is based on the
applicants' skill set and not gender.  Secondly heavier manufacturing roles and night shift roles are
predominantly carried out by males.  However, any females
working the same roles or shift patterns would receive exactly the
same remuneration.  The Median Gender Pay Gap  Median averages are useful to indicate what the 'typical'
situation is i.e., in the middle of a company and are not distorted
by very large or small pay rates.  The median gender pay gap
for April 2017 was 12.1%.  This measure shows that the lower
representation of women at board level is much less pronounced as
are the heavier roles and night shift roles and the 'typical'
general pay gap is lower than the mean.  BONUS PAY GAP  The Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap  The Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap can be a good measure where bonus
payments are common across a company, large or small bonus payments
can dominate and distort the answer where such payments are not
prevalent across the business; this is partially the case with
Dudson Ltd as the sales team are the only team paid a commission
bonus.  The mean bonus gender pay gap was 75.5% and is solely
down to the gender mix within the sales team.  The Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap  The Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap was also 75% again mainly due to
the sales team being paid a commission bonus.  The Proportion of Males and Females Receiving a Bonus
Payment  For the FY2016/17 the proportion of males and females receiving
a bonus payment was 15% of females and 9% of males.  Proportion of Males to Females in each Quartile
Pay Band     Upper   Upper-middle   Middle   Lower                    The above shows that the majority of women employed by Dudson are
in the middle and lower bands which confirms that we have a low
percentage in the more senior positions. (Upper and upper-middle
bands).  Whilst we have 9 female managers out of 26 (35%) we
are always trying to improve these figures.  In our senior
manager level however, we have 4 male managers and 5 female
managers.  Action Plan   Unfortunately, fewer women study and work in technology,
engineering and maths disciplines in the UK which form a large part
of our company.  In the medium to longer term our aim is to
recruit/develop more female employees into our operations,
technical and engineering focused functions.  We will also
start to encourage female employees to develop in manufacturing
areas such as mould making and casting which have been
predominately occupied by male employees.  The pay grade
structure ensures fairness and consistency across all manufacturing
roles.  And finally, whilst we are satisfied that our
recruitment and retention strategies are not biased against gender
we will attempt to break down the stereotypical barriers and
beliefs that certain areas of a traditional manufacturing arena
should be a either male e.g., Kilns or female e.g., Decorating
dominant environment.    Max Dudson  CEO              