               Menu                Book now        Our Casinos           BOOK A TABLE IN ONE OF OUR RESTAURANTS   With a delicious range of dinner menus served across our venues throughout the evening, plus a selection of late night dishes and light snacks available until the early hours, Napoleons offers something to suit every taste and occasion.  Napoleons operate a strict ‘Challenge 21’ policy which means that if you are lucky enough to look under 21, you will need to provide valid ID to prove that you are over 18.   Book your table today... Please select Bradford Hull Leeds Sheffield    Group Bookings  Reservations for up to 7 people can be made via online booking. For dinner bookings of 8 or more people please call the restaurant. Get the contact details here.        Book your table today...   Bradford Hull Leeds Sheffield     For bookings of 8 or more , please call us on 01274 391820 For bookings of 8 or more , please call us on 01482 221133  For bookings of 8 or more , please call us on 0113 244 5393 For bookings of 8 or more , please call us on 0114 285 5566                           Bradford    Discover more        Hull    Discover more        Leeds    Discover more        Sheffield    Discover more           Close    Back to main menu  The Casinos     Bradford     Hull     Leeds     Sheffield        The Casinos     The Experience    Your First Visit?     Dining     Events & Offers     Our Journal     Contact us      Back to main menu  Your First Visit?     The Basics     How to Play     FAQs     Friendly Staff      Sign up as a member    Can't find what your looking for?              Our Policies       Terms & Conditions  Cookie Policy  Privacy Policy  Modern Slavery  Gender Pay Gap   Terms & Conditions  Membership Declaration  By signing up for our Membership you confirm the following: "I am over 18 years of age and I hereby apply to join Napoleons Casinos. In order to become a full member I understand that I must provide appropriate identification and that a photograph will be taken of me which will be kept by the casino. I agree to abide by club rules and understand that my membership is non-transferable and I confirm that I have not enrolled in the voluntary self-exclusion scheme from UK casinos (SENSE)." Offers & promotions  Terms & conditions for all our offers and promotions can be accessed via the cash desk of the relevant casino.  Use of cookies by The A & S Leisure Group Ltd (incorporating Napoleons Leisure Ltd and Sheffield Sports Stadium Ltd)

Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer by websites that you visit or certain emails you open. They are widely used in order to make websites work, as well as to provide business and marketing information to the owners of the site.

The A & S Leisure Group Ltd uses Performance Cookies via Google Analytics on napoleons-casinos.co.uk to track your visit.

This is done to enable us to analyse patterns of your usage of the website in order to assist our improvement of the website and our development of new functionality.

None of the information this provides us with is personally identifiable. Required Cookies These cookies are automatically written by the website and are vital to the website operation.    Cookie Name  Purpose  Sample    PHPSESSID  Holds a specific session key which is used to remember a user’s session while the browser is not closed.  8e6c145b80960d31300ebd56a746bcfd      Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count page visits and traffic sources so we can measure the performance of our website, using the analytics service from Google. Learn more.    Cookie Name  Purpose  Sample    __utma  Provided by Google Analytics to track your visit anonymously and produce reports to help us improve the web site  27546787.
1617365971.
1338971578.
1338971578.
1338971578.1    __utmb  Provided by Google Analytics to track your visit anonymously and produce reports to help us improve the web site  27546787.
2.
10.
1338971578    __utmc  Provided by Google Analytics to track your visit anonymously and produce reports to help us improve the web site  27546787    __utmz  Provided by Google Analytics to track your visit anonymously and produce reports to help us improve the web site  27546787.
1338971578.
1.
1.
utmcsr=(direct)|utmccn=(direct)|utmcmd=(none)      Social media cookies We have a 'share page' widget on some of our web pages, where content can be shared easily on the following sites - Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, LinkedIN. These sites may set a cookie when you are logged into their service. We have no control or liability over these cookies set, so you should check the relevant third party's cookie policy for more information. PRIVACY POLICY - THE A&S LEISURE GROUP LTD  Registered in England, No. 939109 (Inc Napoleons Leisure Ltd Registered in England No. 01794381 and Sheffield Sports Stadium Ltd Registered in England No. 00707406) “The Company”
Registered Office: 15 Livesey Street, Sheffield, S6 2BL  INTRODUCTION  This Policy sets out how the Company will use and protect any personal information it collects from you.
The Company may change this Policy from time to time and these changes will be published on its’ website at http://napoleons-casinos.co.uk where you should check regularly for updates.
If you provide information through the website by, including but not limited to, forms, newsletters, sign ups and membership applications, and do not advise the Company to the contrary, you consent to the Company using your data as set out in the Policy.
The Company may use the information collected in the following ways:-   To apprise you of details for and the customisation of existing products and services by means not limited to but including post, email, text or telephone  To analyse website usage  To keep our records up to date for internal and any regulatory purpose  To make any disclosure required by law   SECURITY  We are committed to protecting your personal information. We maintain, physical, electronic and procedural safeguards in order to protect your data.Your data will only be accessed by authorised employees, trained in the proper handling of this information. Any person or organisation providing products or services to customers on our behalf are contractually required to protect the confidentiality of this information.    EXTERNAL LINKS   We do not accept responsibility for hyperlinks to 3rd parties who have their own privacy policies and are likely to use their own cookies – you are advised to view these separately and you use them at your own risk.  UNDER 18 POLICY  You must be 18 years of age or over to enter the casino or to participate in gaming. We do not knowingly collect information from anyone under the age of 18. If you are under 18 years of age you are not permitted to interact with our site including but not limited to signing up for offers, newsletters, membership or notifications, nor entering competitions or prize draws.
In the event of any doubt regarding your age we reserve the right to request valid date of birth identification.   DATA PROTECTION REQUESTS  If you wish to remove your personal information for direct marketing purposes you can unsubscribe at any time to emails received or by texting STOP to any SMS messages. Or simply contact us via the email address below requesting your personal details are removed from our database.
Under the Data Protection Act you have the right to request a copy of the personal information The A&S Leisure Group holds about you and to have any inaccuracies corrected. (We charge £20 for information requests and require you to prove your identity with 2 pieces of approved identification).

We will use reasonable efforts to supply, correct or delete personal information about you on our files.
Please address requests and questions about this Privacy Policy to:
The Data Protection Officer
The A & S Leisure Group Ltd
Sheffield
S6 2BL

Or email dpa.officer@asleisure.co.uk SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING STATEMENT  Introduction The A&S Leisure Group Limited, Napoleons Leisure Limited and Sheffield Sports Stadium Limited recognise that modern slavery can have a significant adverse impact on individuals, families and communities across the world.  We are committed to improving our practices to prevent any incident of slavery and human trafficking in our business or supply chains.   Organisation’s structure The A&S Leisure Group Limited, Napoleons Leisure Limited and Sheffield Sports Stadium Limited are a provider of gambling and food and beverage services in the leisure sector.  We operate solely within the UK and a substantial percentage of the revenue we receive is derived from gambling activities and does not involve a supply chain.   Employment All of our branches are owned and operated by the company directly thus ensuring that all employees who work on a temporary, fixed term or permanent basis are subject to a right to work check in accordance with UK legislation.

Where the services of an employment agency are used we will only use reputable agencies.   Supply chain We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery or human trafficking in our supply chains or in any part of our business.  We expect all of our suppliers, contractors and business partners working with us to comply with our values and policies.  We will implement a Supplier Code of Conduct and this will require all current and future suppliers, contractors and business partners to confirm in writing their compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.   Due diligence processes As part of our ongoing strategy to identify and mitigate risk we have systems in place to:  Ensure a controlled and monitored work environment within our licensed premises;  Build (where practicable) long standing relationship with our suppliers and partners, and in doing so we make clear that by associating with us we expect high levels of ethical and professional behaviour;  Work with (where practicable) a UK company or branch as we have an expectation that these entities take a similarly strong stance against combatting slavery and human trafficking;  Deal with any issues which arise and to deal with such issues as appropriate; and  Encourage the reporting of concerns and we protect whistle blowers in accordance with our whistle blowing policy     Awareness To ensure a high level of understanding of the risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chains and our business, we are aiming to provide training to our key members of staff to ensure a high level of understanding within our organisation.  This statement is made pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the financial year ending 2 October 2016.  GENDER PAY GAP REPORT  The difference in mean gender pay gap is 26%  The difference in median gender pay gap is 9%  The difference in mean gender bonus pay gap is -78%  The difference in median gender bonus gap is 61%  The percentage of female employees who receive a bonus is 8%  The percentage of male employees who receive a bonus is 9%   Pay quartiles by gender:   Lower: Female 57% Male 43%  Low middle: Female 49% Male 51%  Upper middle: Female 48% Male 52%  Upper: Female 23% Male 77%  I confirm that the figures are based on data from April 2017Chief Executive  Mark Allen Chief Executive           Sign up today for  Offers & rewards                     Your nearest casino     Please select  Bradford Hull Leeds Sheffield      Date of birth            I confirm I'm not on the voluntary self exclusion scheme (SENSE) from casinos.        I confirm I'm 18 years or over.      Submit             This site uses cookies. To find out more about cookies on this website, see our cookie policy   Accept and continue           Search         Follow us                Our Casinos   Bradford  Hull  Leeds  Sheffield     Discover  The Experience  Your First Visit?  Dining  Events & Offers  FAQs  Contact us     Search         Follow us            Membership   Become a member       Careers Sensible gaming Our Policies   Website by We Are Impression    Copyright Napoleons Casinos & Restaurants 2018   xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?                                             