Home About Us News Jobs Links Contact Vision 2020 By-product Processing Pet Food Ingredients Renewable Energy Anaerobic Digestion Food Services Bio-Fertilisers About Us Mission Statement Corporate compliance Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking 2018 Statement Gender Pay Reporting - 2017 UK Tax Strategy Statement  SARIA Ltd - Gender Pay Gap Report 2017  SARIA's operations in the UK are active in a wide range of sectors associated with the food chain.  The Group’s companies manufacture quality products for use in human and animal foodstuffs, agriculture, aquaculture, and industrial applications.  The company also produces bio-fuels and renewable energy and provides services for farming and the food industry.  SARIA Ltd is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the worldwide SARIA Group and has a UK annual turnover approaching £280 million, employing over 1,000 people at 23 sites across the country. Below is a graph showing our ‘gender pay gap’ across the UK, compared with that within the UK Manufacturing sector and on a National basis, according to data from the Office for National Statistics.  These figures show the difference between the average hourly pay levels of all women compared to all men, irrespective of their role or grade in the organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s average pay.  Although a gap exists within SARIA Ltd, it is lower than both the National level and that within the Manufacturing sector.  Our gap is predominantly due to a male-orientated workforce, making up over 86% of eligible employees.  This percentage is high due to the nature of our business and our working patterns, staffing a 24 hour / 7 day a week operation, working 12 hour shifts of days and nights. Our Gender Pay Gap is further influenced by skilled employees, including electricians, mechanics and maintenance roles, which are historically filled more by male employees than female.  There are also more female employees within our organisation who take up the option of Childcare Vouchers, which reduces the hourly rate accordingly. The ‘gender pay gap’ is an average figure taken from April 2017 pay data and is different to ‘Equal pay’, which looks at the comparison between men and women’s pay in equal value roles / jobs.  The graphs opposite illustrate SARIA Ltd’s gender distribution across hourly paid quartiles.  Bonus payments do not form part of SARIA Ltd’s normal remuneration package, however discretionary bonuses can be paid to managers. In the year preceding 5 April 2017 the bonus payments made have been calculated as follows to show the Mean, Median and percentage of male and female employees who received a bonus: Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap - 13.19%  Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap - 14.89% 8.13% of all MALE employees received a bonus 10.10% of all FEMALE employees received a bonus  SARIA Ltd operates its pay through a salary and grading structure, managed by Job Evaluation, which considers the following factors:     Education & Level of Skill  Proven Ability  Managerial Responsibility  Accountability  Independence of Action  Complexity  Relationships - Internal & External  Direction (Supervision Received)  Pressure of Work  Working Environment    The job evaluation process objectively assesses roles rather than their post-holders, thereby removing any reference to gender.  Roles are evaluated based on detailed job descriptions, and the requirements of the role as per the expectations of the role’s line manager. SARIA Ltd - Gender Pay Distribution 2017  The graphs below illustrate SARIA Ltd’s gender distribution across hourly paid quartiles, each containing 178 / 179 employees:     © 2018 SARIA Limited | SARIA Limited | 
 Ings Road, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, DN5 9TL | Site by Redwire