                               Innovation you can build on™      Search        Search our site    Search                Menu        About Us  About Us       Explore - About Us  Explore - About Us       Who We Are     Who We Are    Our Board of Directors    Our Executive Committee      Corporate Animation        What We Do     What We Do    How We Operate     How We Operate    Organisation Membership      Policies and Procedures     Policies and Procedures    Company Policy Download Area        Where We Operate     Where We Operate    Asia     Asia    Australia    Greater China    India     India    Announcements      Indonesia    Japan    Korea    Singapore    Thailand    Vietnam      Europe, Middle East & Africa     Europe, Middle East & Africa    France    Germany    Italy     Italy    Policies/Politiche    Cerificati Qualità/Quality Certificates    Condizioni Generali di Acquisto  General Conditions of Purchase    Condizioni Generali di Vendita  General Conditions of Sales    Codice Etico/Code of Ethics    Modello Organizzativo D Lgs 231 01  Parte Generale    Dichiarazione di Principio per la Sicurezza e Salute in Azienda e Protezione dell ambiente    Informativa Privacy per lItalia      Netherlands    Poland    Russia    South Africa    Spain    Sweden    Turkey    United Arab Emirates    United Kingdom      Latin America     Latin America    Argentina    Brazil    Chile    Columbia    Mexico    Peru      North America     North America    Canada    USA            Our History     Our History    50 Years as a Public Company     50 Years as a Public Company    50 Years of Innovation Timeline      Our Timeline                   Corporate Animation   Find out more about our unique culture and how we create, make and sell innovative, sustainable, high performance speciality chemicals that are relied on by industries and consumers everywhere.   Learn more             Products and Markets  Products and Markets       Explore - Products and Markets  Explore - Products and Markets       Adhesives    Agrochemicals    Automotive & Transport    Beauty & Personal Care    Buildings & Construction    Dietary Supplements    Electronics & Devices        Energy, Resources & Renewables    Food & Feed    Furniture & Wood    Household, Industrial & Institutional Cleaning    Lubricants    Oleochemicals    Packaging, Print & Paper        Paints & Coatings    Pharmaceuticals    Phase Change Materials & Thermal Management    Polymers & Additives    Skin Health    Textiles, Nonwovens & Tissues    Water Treatment                 Events   We host and attend a number of exhibitions and trade shows throughout the year.   Events Calendar             Investors  Investors       Explore - Investors  Explore - Investors       Financial Calendar    Investment Case    Results and Trading Statements     Results and Trading Statements    Presentations      Sell Side Coverage    Annual Report     Annual Report    How We Performed    Request a Copy    Annual Report Archive    Group Independent Auditors' Report          Investor Day    Shareholder Information     Shareholder Information    AGM     AGM    2017 Results    2017 Resolutions    2018 Resolutions    2016 Resolutions    2016 Results    2015 Resolutions    2015 Results    2014 Resolutions    2014 Results    2013 Resolutions    2013 Results      Dividend History    Buying and Selling Shares      Governance     Governance    Board of Directors     Board of Directors    Terms of Appointment      Board Responsibilities    Board Committees     Board Committees    Audit Committee    Remuneration Committee    Nomination Committee      Other Committees    Internal Control    Company Policies      Detailed Share Price     Detailed Share Price    Share Charts      Regulatory News        Acquisitions    Email Alerts     Email Alerts    Unsubscribe      Contact Investor Relations    Acquisition of Plant Impact Plc - Public Documents                 Annual Report   For more information about our performance please view our latest Annual Report.   View here             Sustainability  Sustainability       Explore - Sustainability  Explore - Sustainability       Our Approach     Our Approach    Group Chief Executive's Statement    Delivering Sustainability      Carbon Verification        Material Areas     Material Areas    Environmental Impact    Product Stewardship     Product Stewardship    Palm Oil     Palm Oil    Palm Oil Statement    Palm Oil Background    Palm Oil Strategy        Product Design     Product Design    Green Chemistry      Quality Assurance     Quality Assurance    EFfCI    EXCiPACT    Responsible Care    REACH      Process Safety    Occupational Health and Safety    Our People    Knowledge Management    Diversity and Inclusion    Community Education and Involvement     Community Education and Involvement    1% Club    Science for Schools        Targets        Sustainability Reports     Sustainability Reports    Sustainability Reports Archive      GRI Report     GRI Report    Content Index    General Disclosures     General Disclosures    Strategy and Analysis    Organisational Profile    Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries    Stakeholder Engagement    Report Profile    Governance    Ethics and Integrity      Specific Disclosures     Specific Disclosures    Economic Performance    Environmental Performance    Human Rights Performance    Labour Practices & Decent Work Performance    Societal Performance    Product Responsibility Performance      GRI Report Archive                   Sustainability   Learn about our sustainability achievements as we celebrate our 10th anniversary of publishing a Sustainability Report   View here             Innovation  Innovation       Explore - Innovation  Explore - Innovation       Our Innovation    Open Innovation        Technology Investment    Contact Innovation                 Innovation   Our Technology Investment Group (TIG) is the function that drives the acquisition and licensing of innovative technologies. If you would like to get in touch with our TIG group please visit our Technology Investment Group page for details.   Technology Investment at Croda             Careers  Careers       Explore - Careers  Explore - Careers       Why Join Croda?    Discover Croda     Discover Croda    Our History    Who We Are    Markets We Serve    The Croda Culture      Talent Development    Our Employees     Our Employees    Latin America     Latin America    Angelica Matos    Angelica Nova    Carlos Eduardo Silva    Emerson Dallan    Fernando Vinagre    Giovanna Torresan    Jorge Alvarado    Juliana Cuadros    Magda Machado    Marco Cantanhede    Mauricio Modesto    Paulo Trevisan      North America     North America    Cameron Abid    Cindy Brungard    Debbie Rummel    Farahdia Edouard    Patricia Van EE    Robert Stewart    Suresh Swaminathan      Asia     Asia    Akira Ichii    Chuleelin Piyakaiwan    Nick Challoner    Crane Chen    Yong Chuan Lew    Meindra    Paul Cameron    Raquel Mirabent    Rupark Sarswat    Ryota Koesawa    Um Ji Hong      Europe & EEMEA     Europe & EEMEA    Christa Revoort    Christopher BB    Meritxell Rulo    Jamie Pocklington    Kevin Bozec    Mike Hindley    Nicola Daniels    Nicola Readman    Paola Manuello    Richard Hadley    Ruth Ellway    Sandra Breene    Sarah Millns    Sebastian Moughli    Vincent Tison      Employee Videos          Our Locations     Our Locations    Asia     Asia    Australia    Greater China    India    Indonesia    Japan    Korea    Singapore    Thailand    Vietnam      Europe, Middle East & Africa     Europe, Middle East & Africa    France    Germany    Italy    Netherlands    Poland    Russia    South Africa    Spain    Sweden    Turkey    United Arab Emirates    United Kingdom      Latin America     Latin America    Argentina    Brazil    Chile    Columbia    Mexico    Peru      North America     North America    Canada    USA        Career Opportunities     Career Opportunities    Professional Development    Personal Development      Graduate Opportunities     Graduate Opportunities    Essential Information    Training for Graduates     Training for Graduates    Residential Training    Placements and Projects    Mentoring and CPD      Programmes Available     Programmes Available    Asia    Europe and EEMEA    Latin America    North America        Current Vacancies        Recruitment Process    Work Experience    Contact Us                 Careers   Would you like to find out what it's like to start your career at Croda?   Career Opportunities             News  News       Explore - News  Explore - News       Company Updates    Events        Innovation    Sustainability        Trends                 Events   We host and attend a number of exhibitions and trade shows throughout the year.   Events Calendar             Contact  Contact       Explore - Contact  Explore - Contact       How to find our headquarters                     MSDS   View and download MSDS' in multiple languages for products manufactured at our European and North American manufacturing sites.   View here                        Home  Investors  Governance  Company Policies         In this section    Financial Calendar    Investment Case    Results and Trading Statements    Sell Side Coverage    Annual Report    Investor Day    Shareholder Information    Governance    Board of Directors    Board Responsibilities    Board Committees    Other Committees    Internal Control    Company Policies      Detailed Share Price    Regulatory News    Acquisitions    Email Alerts    Contact Investor Relations    Acquisition of Plant Impact Plc - Public Documents        Company Policies  Click to view the below policies:       Board Diversity Policy       The Board is committed to greater diversity within our business. The diversity of our people - whether in terms of ideas, skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity, gender or any other measure - is very important for the continuing long term success of the Company. This also applies when it comes to the makeup of the Board to ensure that it is well equipped to lead the business effectively, embraces new ideas and makes good use of differences in experiences, backgrounds and perspectives to satisfy all the different stakeholders we have as a global organisation.  The Board has adopted the following Board Diversity Policy:    This Board Diversity Policy (the “Policy”) sets out the approach to diversity of the Board of Croda International Plc (the “Board”).  The Policy applies to the Board of Croda International Plc (the “Company”). The Policy does not apply to diversity in relation to employees of the wider Croda Group, which is covered by the Group Policy on Managing Diversity.   Policy Statement  The Board is committed to greater diversity within our business. The diversity of our people – whether in terms of ideas, skills, knowledge, experience, ethnicity, gender, or any other measure - is very important for the continuing long term success of the Company. This also applies when it comes to the makeup of the Board to ensure that it is well equipped to lead the business effectively, embraces new ideas and makes good use of differences in experiences, backgrounds and perspectives to satisfy all the different stakeholders we have as a global organisation.  Regarding all appointments to the Board, whether for Non-Executive or Executive positions, we will carefully consider the benefits of greater diversity, including gender diversity, whilst ensuring that we fulfil our obligations to our shareholders to recruit the best person, on merit, to the relevant role.  In accordance with its terms of reference, our Nomination Committee (the “Committee”) regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and recommends candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise. In considering the composition of the Board the Committee will consider, amongst other things, the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.  The Board and the Committee consider the size of our Board is appropriate, engendering thorough debate, discussion and challenge at Board meetings and allowing all directors to be fully involved and contribute to Board decisions. Although there are no current plans to increase the size of the Board, we will work towards increasing diversity, including gender, as vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified.   Measurable objectives  At any given time the Board may seek to improve one or more aspects of its diversity and measure progress accordingly. In identifying suitable candidates for appointment to the Board, the Committee will:   For all Non-Executive Director appointments, and where appropriate Executive Director appointments, use open advertising or the services of external executive search firms to facilitate the search;  If using executive search firms, only use firms that have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms;  Consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, including those without public company board experience;  Consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board; and  Ensure that no unlawful discrimination occurs at any stage in the selection process on the grounds of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, maternity, pregnancy, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.   The Board is committed to at least maintaining the current 25% level of female representation and achieving a 33% level of female representation in the medium-term, whilst ensuring that diversity in its broadest sense remains a central feature of the Board.   Monitoring and reporting  The Committee will report annually, in the corporate governance section of the Company’s Annual Report, on the process it has used in relation to Board appointments. Such report will include a summary of, and progress against, the objectives in the Policy.   Review of the Policy  The Committee will review the Policy annually, which will include an assessment of the effectiveness of the Policy.  The Committee will discuss any revisions that may be required and recommend any such revisions to the Board for approval.    Approved by the Board on 19 January 2018        Gender Pay Gap Report       2017 Gender Pay Gap Report        Non-Audit Policy      Provision of non-audit services by external auditors. 1. As a result of the Revised Ethical Standard which was issued by the FRC in April 2016, the Company’s auditors will not be appointed to provide any of the non-audit services which are blacklisted in the Ethical Standard 5 of the Financial Reporting Council. This will apply from 31 December 2016. For these purposes, prohibited non audit services shall mean:  (a) tax services relating to: i) preparation of tax forms; (ii) payroll tax; (iii) customs duties (iv) identification of public subsidies and tax incentives unless support from the audit firm in respect of such services is required by law; (v) support regarding tax inspections by tax authorities unless support from the audit firm in respect of such inspections is required by law; (vi) calculation of direct and indirect tax and deferred tax; or (vii) provision of tax advice;  (b) services that involve playing any part in the management or decision-making of the audited entity;  (c) bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and financial statements;  (d) payroll services;  (e) designing and implementing internal control or risk management procedures related to the preparation and/or control of financial information or designing and implementing financial information technology systems;  (f) valuation services, including valuations performed in connection with actuarial services or litigation support services;  (g) legal services, with respect to:  (i) the provision of general counsel; (ii) negotiating on behalf of the audited entity; or (iii) acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation; (h) services related to the audited entity's internal audit function; (i) services linked to the financing, capital structure and allocation, and investment strategy of the audited entity, except providing assurance services in relation to the financial statements, such as the issuing of comfort letters in connection with prospectuses issued by the audited entity; (j) promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the audited entity; and (k) human resources services, with respect to: (i) management in a position to exert significant influence over the preparation of the accounting records or financial statements which are the subject of the statutory audit; (ii) structuring the organisation design; or (iii) cost control.  2. The services referred to in points 1(a)(i), 1(a)(iv) to 1(a)(vii) and 1(f), may be provided if the following requirements are complied with: (a) they have no direct effect or, in the view of an objective, reasonable and informed third party, would have an inconsequential effect, separately or in the aggregate, on the audited financial statements;  (b) the estimation of the effect on the audited financial statements is comprehensively documented and explained in the additional report to the audit committee;  (c) the principles of independence laid down in Section 1 of the Revised Ethical Standard 2016 are complied with; and  (d) for the purposes of the statutory audit of the financial statements, the audit firm would not place significant reliance on the work performed by the audit firm in performing these services.  3. The Company’s auditors may be appointed to provide non-audit services, except those prohibited by paragraph 1 above), provided that: (a) the fees payable to the auditors in respect of such services must not exceed £500,000 or 70% of the average audit fee for the last three years in the aggregate, whichever is the lower;  (b) each appointment of the auditors to provide any such services must be approved by the Group Finance Director or the Group Financial Controller;  (c) any individual appointment for services in excess of £20,000 must first be approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board (the “Audit Committee”), with the Chairman having discretion on whether to seek approval of the Audit Committee;  (d) any individual appointment for services in excess of £100,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee; and  (e) a summary of the fees paid in each of the first and second half of each year shall be presented to the Audit Committee at its first meeting after each such period end.  Any proposal to appoint the Company’s auditors to provide non-audit services which will breach the aggregate fee limit referred to above will require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.  This policy will be reviewed by the Audit Committee at least annually and will also be updated to reflect changes in laws and regulations. Adopted by the Audit Committee of the Board on 1 November 2016 to take effect from 1 January 2017.        Remuneration Policy       Croda’s  remuneration policy was adopted by shareholders at the Company’s 2017 Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2017 and is intended to operate until the Company's 2020 Annual General Meeting.  The key objectives of our executive remuneration policy are:   to achieve the closest possible alignment with the Company’s strategy;  to raise the profile of performance and to ensure that it is judged against true business competition  to ensure that the policy properly reflects the various concerns of shareholders as to structure and metrics;  to ensure that target setting year by year sets truly stretching ambitions and that the scale of reward is proportionate; and  The Committee’s method of operation will be flexible and dynamic taking account of external changes and business performance   The table below sets out the main components of Croda’s Remuneration Policy:      Link to strategy    Operation    Maximum opportunity      Basic salary   To assist in the recruitment and retention of high-calibre executives    Reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 January.
            Base salaries will be set by the Committee, taking into account:   The performance and experience of the individual concerned  Any change in responsibilities  Rates of pay in international manufacturing and pan-sector companies of a comparable size and complexity  Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group  Rates of inflation and market- wide wage increases across international locations  The geographical location of the Executive     Salaries may be increased each year (in percentage of salary terms).  The Committee will be guided by the salary increase budget set in each geography and across the workforce generally.  Increases beyond those linked to the geography of the Executive or the workforce as a whole (in percentage of salary terms) may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and/or size, value or complexity of the Group.  The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary of a new hire at a discount to the market level initially, and to implement a series of planned increases in subsequent years, in order to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid. The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate Committee meeting each year taking due account of the factors noted in operation of the salary policy.      Benefits   To provide competitive benefits to act as a retention mechanism and reward service.    The Group typically provides the following benefits:   Company car (or cash allowance)  Private fuel allowance  Health and other insured benefits  Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses/arrangements (as required)   Additional benefits might be provided from time to time (e.g. in circumstances where an Executive Director is recruited from overseas). The Committee will consider whether the payment of any additional benefits is appropriate and in line with market practice when determining whether they are paid.    Cost of benefits is not pre-determined and may vary from year to year based on the cost to the Group.      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid  None.      Performance Share Plan  To incentivise and reward the execution of business strategy over the longer term.
            Rewards sustained growth in (i) profit and (ii) shareholder value.    The Performance Share Plan (PSP) provides for awards of free shares (ie either conditional shares or nil-cost options) normally made annually which vest after three years subject to continued service and the achievement of challenging performance conditions.  Shares (on an after tax basis) are subject to a one-year post-vesting holding period for awards granted in 2014 and a two-year post-vesting holding period for awards granted in subsequent years.  The Committee has the discretion at grant of an award, to permit awards to benefit from the dividends paid on shares that vest.    Normal maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.  In exceptional circumstances (eg recruitment), awards may be granted up to 300% of salary to compensate for value forfeited from a previous employer.      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid
            Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial (eg EPS) and total shareholder return performance targets tested over three years.  25% of awards will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equalling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets (no awards vest for performance below threshold). Vesting is also dependent on satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period. Subject to potential claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct. The claw back provisions will operate for a three year period following the date on which the awards vest.      All-employee share plans Encourages long term shareholding in the Company.  Provides all employees with the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company on similar terms.    Periodic invitations are made to participate in the Group’s Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan.  Shares acquired through these arrangements have significant tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying certain HMRC requirements.  The plans can only operate on an all employee basis. The plans operate on similar terms but on a non-tax favoured basis outside the UK as appropriate.    The maximum participation level (for UK-based employees) is as per HMRC limits (see Annual Report on Remuneration for current maximum limits).      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid.  There are no post-grant performance targets applicable to these awards.      Pension   To provide competitive long term retirement benefits. To act as a retention mechanism and reward service.    Pension benefits are typically provided either through (i) participation in the Group’s defined benefit pension plan with a cash supplement provided above any pension salary cap or (ii) a cash supplement provided in lieu of pension.  Only basic salary is pensionable.    Defined benefit pension with up to 1/60th accrual up to a capped salary of £150,000 as of April 2014 plus cash allowance of up to 25% of salary above the cap.  Or  Cash allowance of up to 25% of salary. With effect from 1 April 2016 the form of defined benefit pension will change to a Career Average Revalued Earnings scheme. This change applies similarly to all employees with their existing accrual rate retained (up to 1/60th).      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid  None.      Performance related bonus To incentivise and reward delivery of the Group’s key annual objectives.
            To contribute to longer term alignment with shareholders.    Compulsory deferral of one third of any bonus paid into shares for three years.  The balance of the bonus is paid in cash.    Group Chief Executive: 125% of salary  Other Executive Directors: 100% of salary      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid  Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Bonus will be fully (or largely) based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the Group’s KPIs (eg income growth targets). The Committee has the flexibility to include, for a minority of the bonus, targets related to the Group’s other KPIs where this is considered appropriate. For each objective set, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met (0% payable) rising on a graduated scale to 100% for out-performance. The Committee has the flexibility to take health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so. Bonuses paid are subject to potential claw back in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct. The claw back provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.      Bonus Plan and Long Term Incentive Policy   The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP and all-employee plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans. These include the following (performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the preceding policy table):   Who participates in the plans  The timing of grant of award and/or payment  The size of an award and/or payment  The determination of vesting  Dealing with a change of control (eg the timing of testing performance targets) or restructuring  Determination of a good/bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen  Adjustments required in certain circumstances (eg rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends)  The annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus plan and PSP   The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and/or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the PSP if events occur (eg material divestment of a Group business) which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.  Choice of Performance Measures and Approach to Target Setting   The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long term incentive plans are a subset of the Group’s KPIs.  Under the annual bonus plan, an underlying profit-based objective such as income growth will be used as the primary performance metric. Such a measure will be used as it looks to reward two KPIs that are used within the business, namely the growth in underlying profitability and the efficient use of working capital. Other metrics based on the Group’s KPIs may be used in the future where it is considered that they provide clear alignment with the evolving strategy of the Group. In any event, the achievement of profitable growth whilst ensuring that efficient management of capital is fully encouraged will be central to the Committee’s deliberations.  In terms of long term performance targets, PSP awards vest subject to (i) challenging EPS growth targets that are informed by the long term levels of earnings growth targeted by the Group and (ii) relative TSR targets which provide clear alignment of interests between shareholders and executives.  Targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external market expectations for the Group. Only modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of the challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
No performance targets are applied to the all-employee plans which are aimed at encouraging broad based equity ownership.  Further details of the annual bonus metrics to be used for the current financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration. The targets for awards to be granted under the PSP in the current financial year are consistent with the policy set out above and are also set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.  Recruitment and Promotion Policy   For Executive Director recruitment and/or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines below:      Remuneration element    Policy      Base salary    Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Group’s remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual (eg typically around market rates in companies of comparable size and complexity). Salary levels may be set below this level (eg if the individual was promoted to the Board).
            Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the subsequent few years subject to individual performance. Above market salaries may also be offered if the experience and calibre of the candidate is considered to justify such an approach being taken by the Committee.      Benefits    Benefits in accordance with the current policy. In addition, where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment.      Pension    A Company pension contribution or cash supplement in accordance with the current policy.      Annual bonus    The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the current policy in terms of the maximum opportunity and performance targets, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment. Any increases in ongoing annual bonus opportunity above the normal limit will be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy.      Long term incentives    Share awards will be granted in accordance with the current policy. An award may be made shortly after an appointment (subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period). For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
            The maximum on-going annual award level is as per the current policy.      Buy out awards    In the case of an external hire and in exceptional circumstances, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements (which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer), this would be provided for taking into account the form (cash or shares), timing and expected value (ie likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria) of the remuneration being forfeited.
            Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Company’s existing share plans within the limits detailed in the current policy table. Awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.      Directors’ Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office  Executive Directors’ service contracts are terminable by the Company on up to one year’s notice and by the Director on at least six months’ notice.  In respect of termination, the Committee’s policy is to deal with each case on its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy adopted by the Committee at the time. In the event of early termination, other than for cause, the relevant Director’s then current salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company. For clarification, the Company’s policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus will be taken into account when determining payments on early termination.  The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car or car allowance, private fuel allowance, pension, medical insurance and life assurance. Annual bonuses and long term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.  The Committee’s policy is also for contracts to contain provisions which enable the Company to terminate contracts at any time with immediate effect. The Executive Director would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to up to twelve months’ salary plus the value of their pension benefits (currently valued at 20% of basic salary) and the value of other benefits, payable in equal monthly instalments over the full notice period or, if less, the remainder of any notice period not yet completed. Such payments would discontinue or reduce to the extent that alternative employment is obtained.  An Executive Director’s service contract may be terminated without notice for certain events such as gross misconduct. No payment or compensation beyond sums accrued up to the date of termination will be made if such an event occurs.  Other than in the event of a redundancy, retirement or other good leaver circumstances, at the discretion of the Committee, no bonus may be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date. In the event that an individual does cease employment for one of the good leaver reasons detailed, bonuses would become payable pro-rata based on the number of complete calendar months worked in the relevant year. The policy for a new hire would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions.  The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules. The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse on cessation of employment. In relation to awards granted under the Company’s long term incentive plans, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as injury or disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, retirement with the Company’s agreement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee (reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time) ‘good leaver’ status may be applied. If treated as a good leaver, awards will be eligible to vest subject to performance conditions, which will be measured over the performance period from grant to the normal vesting date, and which will be reduced pro-rata (unless the Committee consider it appropriate to do so) to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.  Shareholding Guidelines   The Committee operates share ownership guidelines which apply to all Executive Directors and the Group Executive Committee. The Group Chief Executive is subject to a share ownership guideline of 200% of salary and the other Executive Directors to 150% of salary.  It is expected that the guideline will be met within a five year time period from its adoption (or date of joining for new appointments) through a combination of share purchases and the retention of incentive shares. On the exercise of Sharesave options or the vesting of awards from the Company’s long term incentive plans, Executives are required to retain shares awarded representing 50% of the net of tax gain until the ownership target is met or exceeded.  External Appointments  Executive Directors can accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board. It is normal practice for Executive Directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments.  Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of Appointment   The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier termination by either party on written notice. In each case, this term can be extended by mutual agreement. Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement to contractual termination payments.
The dates of the initial appointments of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.  Non-Executive Directors’ fees   The policy on Non-Executive Directors’ fees is:      Link to strategy    Operation    Maximum opportunity      Fees  To provide a competitive fee which will attract those high calibre individuals who, through their experience, can further the interests of the Group through their stewardship and contribution to strategic development.    The fees for Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) are typically reviewed every two years.  Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time commitments and responsibilities, and are periodically benchmarked against relevant market comparators, as appropriate, reflecting the size and nature of the role.  The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee which is paid monthly in cash and do not participate in any of the Company’s incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.  The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable for chairmanship of the Company’s key Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.  All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties.  The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.  The Chairman’s fee is determined by the Committee (during which the Chairman has no part in discussions) and recommended by them to the Board. The Non-Executive Directors’ fees are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.    Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the period that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity.      Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid  None.      How Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy Relates to the Wider Group   The Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy provides an overview of the structure that operates for the Group Executive Directors and those senior Executives forming the Group Executive Committee (noting, however, that there are some differences in PSP participation and levels within this group).
The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors. The key difference is that, overall, the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.  Base salaries are operated under the same policy as detailed in the Remuneration Policy table with any comparator groups used as a reference point being country and/or industry specific. The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader Group and, in particular, the UK based employees when determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
The performance related bonus scheme operates on a tiered basis from 125% of salary down to 30% of salary across the most senior global grades. Outside of the most senior tiers of Executives, the PSP is not operated as this arrangement is reserved for those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence Group level performance.
However, the Committee believes in wider employee share ownership and promotes this through the operation of the HMRC tax approved all-employee share schemes which are open to all UK employees. Other similar share schemes are offered in other jurisdictions where local securities laws allow.  How the Views of Employees are Taken into Account   The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively consult with employees on Executive remuneration. The Group has a diverse workforce operating globally in 34 different countries, with various local pay practices, which hinders effective consultation and so the Group Human Resources Director updates the Committee periodically on feedback received on remuneration practices across the Group.
The Committee takes due account of remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group when setting pay for the Executive Directors (for example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group).  How the Views of Shareholders are Taken into Account   The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally. This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings held with shareholders from time to time, is then considered as part of the Committee’s ongoing review of remuneration policy.        Group Tax Policy       Croda International Plc Group Tax Strategy         Latest News From Croda          Sederma’s Apiscalp™ - Award Winning Green/Sustainable Active at PCHi 2018         Sustainability     Sederma’s Apiscalp™ - Award Winning Green/Sustainable Active at PCHi 2018  Read more            Croda Acquires Marine Biotechnology Specialists Nautilus         Innovation     Croda Acquires Marine Biotechnology Specialists Nautilus  Read more            Croda Brings Another 'First' to USA         Events     Croda Brings Another 'First' to USA  Read more                Share Price  4571.00p +1.00p (delayed) at 10:48 (BST) 20 Apr 2018  More Information             What We Do    Adhesives    Agrochemicals    Automotive & Transport    Buildings & Construction    Beauty & Personal Care    Dietary Supplements    Electronics & Devices    Energy, Resources & Renewables    Food & Feed    Furniture & Wood    Household, Industrial & Institutional Cleaning          Lubricants    Oleochemicals    Packaging, Print & Paper    Paints & Coatings    Pharmaceuticals    Phase Change Materials & Thermal Management    Polymers & Additives    Skin Health    Textiles, Nonwovens & Tissues    Water Treatment         What makes Croda? Watch our video here       Our Reports            2017 Annual Report  Download (pdf,5.7 MB)             2017 Sustainability Report  Download (pdf,5.4 MB)     Croda International Plc   Cowick Hall
Snaith
Goole
East Yorkshire
DN14 9AA
United Kingdom  +44 (0) 1405 860551     Contact Us    Worldwide Locations            © 2018 Croda International Plc |  Terms and Conditions  |  Privacy and cookies  |  Accessibility statement            About cookies on this site By continuing to use this website, you agree to the use of cookies. You can find out more details in our Privacy policy .         