The gender pay gap shows the difference in average earnings between all men and women in an 
organisation. The gender pay gap is not as a result of people being paid differently for the same job. It 
occurs because of the distribution of genders within the workforce. 

Leeds College of Music is an inclusive employer. We use a recognised job evaluation system and have 
robust and published criteria for any discretionary awards made to staff which means we are confident 
that men and women are paid equally for doing the same job. In addition, we provide enhanced 
maternity, paternity and adoption pay for all staff, and encourage and support flexible working.  

Leeds College of Music employed staff across 389 contracts in March 2017. Of these, 135 (35%) were held 
by female staff. This is a slightly better gender balance than in the student population (29% of all students 
were female in 2017). 

Leeds College of Music does not operate a bonus scheme for any staff, so there is no data for this. 

Leeds College of Music’s mean Gender Pay Gap is 11% 

Leeds College of Music’s median Gender Pay Gap is 16.2% (the national average is 18.4%) 

The gender balance in each quartile is as follows: 

 
Quartile 1 (lowest paid) 
Quartile 2 
Quartile 3 
Quartile 4 (highest paid) 

Male %  Female % 
41.2 
40.2 
29.6 
27.8 

58.8 
59.8 
70.4 
72.2 

 

This may not be something that we can change quickly, but we are committed to addressing it along with 
many other organisations in the HE sector. 

While the number of female staff employed as a whole is a concern, analysis of the data highlights two 
key areas which contribute to our gender pay gap. 

The first is the number of female academic staff employed in management posts and as Principal 
Lecturers, and the second is the number of female staff in executive leadership roles. 

Attracting more female applicants to job vacancies is important, as is retaining the female staff that we 
already employ. Consideration of where posts are advertised, and publicising the wider benefits available 
for employees, may assist with attracting more female applicants. 

The academic promotion scheme, through which academic staff can apply for higher grades up to 
Principal Lecturer, has been reviewed in time for the 2018 application window. The criteria have been 
clarified and publicised, and greater focus put on teaching quality alongside research and professional 
practice. Applications and approvals will be monitored specifically by gender in the 2018 promotion 
window. 

Longer term, and more wide-ranging, is an initiative to raise women’s aspirations to leadership and to 
create opportunities for women to support one another into and during leadership which will be 
introduced over the next 12 months. 

Gerry Godley 
Principal and Managing Director 
Leeds College of Music 

