 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

2017 

 

Introduction 
From 2017, under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations  2017,  Central  Bedfordshire  Council,  along  with  any  organisation 
that has 250 or more employees must publish and report specific figures about 
their gender pay gap.  

The  gender  pay  gap  differs  from  equal  pay.  Equal  pay  deals  with  the  pay 
differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs 
or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally because they are 
a man or a woman and has been since 1970. The gender pay gap is not an 
indicator  of  equal  pay  and  must  not  be  viewed  as  such;  it  is  the  difference 
between the average earnings of men and women, expressed relative to men’s 
earnings. The required calculations are a high-level indicator of earnings and 
hence  the  types  of  roles  held  by  male  and  female  employees  within  an 
organisation 
to  prompt  a  discussion  on  proportional  differences  at 
organisational, industry and national level. 

The figures must be calculated using a specific reference date  - this is called 
the ‘snapshot date’, which is 31st March for public sector organisations. 

The data that must be published and that will be set out in the following report 
for 31st March 2017 includes  

•  mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

•  median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

•  mean bonus gender pay gap 

•  median bonus gender pay gap 

•  proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 

•  proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Central Bedfordshire Council 
Central Bedfordshire Council is an equal opportunities employer, committed to 
treating  applicants  fairly  in  relation  to  the  following  protected  characteristics; 
age,  disability,  sex,  gender  reassignment,  pregnancy,  maternity,  race  (which 
includes colour, nationality and ethnic or national origins), sexual orientation, 
religion or belief, or because someone is married or in a civil partnership. 

As at the snapshot date of 31st March 2017 the full pay relevant1 split of male 
to female workers was Male 26%, Female 74%. 

Workforce distribution across the grades by gender – headcount of full 
pay relevant employees 

 

                                                      

1 Any employee who is employed on the snapshot date and who is paid their usual full basic pay (or pay for 
piecework) during the relevant pay period will be a full-pay relevant employee. 
 

 

Male26% Female74%Full(cid:9)Pay(cid:9)Relevant(cid:9)Employees(cid:9)-Gender(cid:9)Split71325501347426153477254603423731124014618787151229201197124156946754279212345678910HGFEHofSADDirCEMaleFemale 

Gender pay gap data – averages of hourly pay 
The calculations compare the mean and median2 hourly rate of full pay relevant 
employees as follows: 

Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

 

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

 

 

 

Gender pay gap data – bonuses 
Central  Bedfordshire  Council  does  not  pay  bonuses  therefore  a  gap 
comparison  and  proportion  of  bonus  recipients  by  gender  indicator  is  not 
applicable. 

                                                      

2  A mean average involves adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result by how many numbers were in 
the list. A median average involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order. If there is an odd number of 
results, the median average is the middle number. If there is an even number of results, the median will be the 
mean of the two central numbers. 
 

 

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 
The  calculation  used  to  compare  the  male  and  female  proportions  in  the 
quartiles is as follows: 

 
How the proportion of male and female employees compares to the proportion 
within the workforce as a whole indicates the existence of a gender pay gap. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Gender split of pay quartiles 

 

Pay Quartile 

Male %  Female % 

Lower 

19.03 

80.97 

Lower middle 

19.70 

80.30 

Upper middle 

24.75 

75.25 

Upper 

38.90 

61.10 

 

 

Senior Management 
The CBC senior management group (SMG), namely Heads of Service and above, split 
by gender is Male 46% and Female 54%. CBC has chosen to review the Gender Pay 
Gap of the SMG as a specific group. The Gender Pay Gap calculated using the 
prescribed method outlined above is 9.43% and -0.58% for the Mean and Median 
respectively.  

Review 
There is good higher level female representation at Central Bedfordshire Council, 
with two of the five in scope Directors at CBC and 9 of the 16 in scope Assistant 
Directors being female. CBC participates in the Local Government Benchmarking 
Scheme which relies on councils providing data relating to defined metrics which can 
then be collated to be used as a comparison against peer organisations. In relation to 
the workforce profile, the percentage of the top paid 5% of staff who are women for 
CBC for 2016/17 was 55.9% compared to the mean of all participating English 
Unitary Authorities of 51.5%. 

However, CBC does fall into the category of having a gender pay gap, visible from the 
lower hourly wage for females at the mean/median level and the deviation of the 
proportion of female staff across the pay quartiles from the proportion of female 
staff in the CBC workforce as a whole. The gap figures are driven by more female 
employees in the lower pay scale roles which typically include those in provision of 
care and administrative roles. At the higher end of the pay scales, within the SMG, 
the Gender Pay Gap reduces and the Median for this group is skewed more towards 
the Female SMG members. 

ACAS, the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service indicate that the evidence 
behind a societal level pay gap is from various statistics provided (amongst others) 
by Office of National Statistics stating that 74% of childcare time is provided by 
mothers (ONS, 2016) and those provided by The Institute for Fiscal Studies that 
suggest that a pay gap the arrival of a child can widen any existing pay gap even 
further (IFS, 2016).  

ACAS believe that the factors that drive the gender pay gap are seen to be both 
within and out of the workplace and include more female employees requiring 
flexible working arrangements (for reasons which include, but are not only for 
childcare and other caring responsibilities) and a lack of well-paid part time/flexible 
jobs, stereotypes, less females in higher paid professions or areas of an organisation 
such as science, technology, engineering and maths and also constrained individual 
choice, unconscious bias and discrimination. 

CBC cannot tackle these issues alone; the reasons behind an employee’s working 
choice has many facets and is intertwined with other family members, therefore 
other employers. However, CBC can continue to provide opportunities for 
progression and flexible working for all genders. Many of CBCs roles allow agile 
working and also allow flexitime working, enabling flexibility around the work/life 
balance. CBC also participate in a childcare vouchers scheme. 

 

 

Central Bedfordshire Council believes in supporting the workforce as a whole but has 
also recognised that female employees can require tailored support. Springboard is 
an award-winning development programme run by CBC providing women with the 
skills to set their own agenda and the goals they want to achieve and is now in its 
sixth year. A recent review of participants presented very positive results; of the 54% 
who responded, 14 had been promoted and 4 had been seconded to a new role. In 
addition, of those who had a promotion, 83% felt it was as a direct result of 
attendance to Springboard. 

The future of addressing CBCs gender pay gap may lie with continuing to showcase 
the female leadership within the council, continuing to recruit upon merit rather that 
presumption, allowing robust job evaluation processes to remain in progress and 
ensuring that whatever a person’s gender, when roles become available, 
communication channels are in place from the offset to discuss any reasons why a 
suitably skilled employee is reluctant to apply.  

 

 

 

Find us online: www.centralbedfordshire.gov.uk  

Call: 0300 300 8000  

Email: customers@centralbedfordshire.gov.uk 

Write to: Central Bedfordshire Council, Priory House,  
Monks Walk, Chicksands, Shefford, Bedfordshire SG17 5TQ 

 

