ABP UK 
Gender Pay Gap Report

Overview

We are pleased to report that the Gender Pay Gap Report (“GPG”) within ABP UK is lower than the UK national 
average (as calculated by the Office of National Statistics).

The majority of roles within our business are based in food manufacturing sites and employees are paid the 
same rate according to their job role, with no differences between men and women.

ABP UK is one of the UK’s leading food companies and Britain’s number one beef processor, operating from 
twelve sites in England and Scotland. We have a dedicated workforce of more than 3,500 permanent employees 
and we are one of the largest employers in the communities in which we are based. 

We are required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay information) 
Regulations 2017. These regulations impact around 10,000 large UK employers across the private, public and 
social sectors to report their GPG data. In compiling our figures, we have included data for our colleagues based 
in England and Scotland. 

In the last 3 years, there has been a concerted effort to recruit more senior level women with 2 of our 7 
Operational Board Directors at ABP UK being women. We recognise that equal gender representation is 
important for the sustained success and productivity of our organisation and also to the UK’s future economic 
growth.

ABP UK operates in the meat industry, a predominantly male sector. Addressing the imbalance of female 
representation in this sector has been a focal point for the food and drink industry as a whole.

ABP UK comprises of 31% female employees, this is ahead of the national average of 25%, but this imbalance 
affects our gender pay statistics.

Hourly Rate Gender Pay Gap

Women’s Hourly rate is:           15.9% lower (mean)           14.2% lower (median)

Since ABP UK operates in a predominantly male sector, specifically butchery, it does have a GPG. This means 
that when we take an average of hourly rates across the whole company, women are paid 15.9% less than men 
(mean GPG) but this falls slightly to 14.2% when you look at the median GPG. This is because women are 
outnumbered by men in all areas of the meat industry but in particular, at senior levels and higher earning skills 
shortage areas such as Butchery, Engineering, and Information Technology. There is a national shortage of 
females in these industries which fuels the problem. Whilst ABP recognise that this could be better and will 
always strive to reach zero, it is encouraged that the statistics are lower than the national average of women 
being paid 18% lower than men.

Attract.Be.Provide

ABP UK 
Gender Pay Gap Report

Bonus Pay

Women’s Bonus Pay is:            63.8% lower (mean)           24% lower (median)  
Bonus Entitlement:                     5.4% of Women                    6.3% of Men 

In terms of bonus pay, the average bonus pay gap is 63.8% with a median gender bonus of 24%. As with the 
ordinary pay gap this is because there are substantially more men in senior operation positions and technically 
skilled roles such as engineering and butchery. Similar proportions of men (6.3%) and women (5.4%) received a 
bonus at ABP in the 12 months prior to April 2017.

Pay

As the table below demonstrates, there are significantly less female colleagues in the upper and upper middle 
quartiles which is evident in the gender composition of the senior management teams across the business. 

Due to the nature of FMCG industry and more specifically the meat industry, where our locations can be 
remote 
and working conditions arduous and inflexible, our senior operational roles tend to attract higher salaries than 
non-operational roles as they are harder to fill and retain due to the hours and conditions of the production 
environment. We recognise that we have to be competitive and look after our colleagues but this in turn is 
impacting our gender pay balance. 

Next Steps

We are encouraged that our starting point is below the national average and we intend to capitalise and 
improve on this position, aiming to achieve a balance in respect of the GPG. ABP UK are committed to achieving 
a GPG of zero and understand that the figures and the reasons behind them are just one step of our journey. It is 
evident that there is no single solution to achieving our goal. We are committed to continue with a range of 
long term actions which will have meaningful impact on the issue. 

Within ABP UK the key reasons for the gap have been identified as 
          A) Gender imbalance within our industry; 
          B) Lack of females in senior operational roles 

Attract.Be.Provide

ABP UK 
Gender Pay Gap Report

The actions we are committing to take are as follows: 

          1) Targeted focus on reduction of GPG 
                    a.    By 2022 ABP aims to have more women in senior operational roles and it aims to redress the pay          
                            quartile imbalance by this point also; 
                    b.    ABP will commence a platform of education on the importance of gender representation, parity          
                             and diversity in all aspects of the workplace and will take steps to upskill managers to ensure they      
                            have an awareness of unconscious bias and stand against gender discrimination.   
                            This will form part of a newly established L&D platform. 
  
         2) Recruitment & Attraction 
                   a.    Women in Operations – ABP will continue to positively promote operational career pathways to          
                           women and ensure they have access to the same opportunity. 
                   b.    Women in STEM – Engineering, Business Analytics, & IT. 
                   c.    Talent Academy – Graduates & Apprenticeship Programmes aligned with skills shortage area and            
                           under-represented areas. 
                   d.    We will look at where we advertise the roles to attract the best female talent including balanced          
                          gender lists from agencies. 

         3) Develop, Retain & Progress Talented Women 
                  a.    Future Leaders – Female Fast Track. 
                  b.    Meat Business Women & Industry Partnerships. 
                  c.    We will review policies of flexible working and shared parental leave. 

As a leader in our industry, it is our responsibility to set an example and show true leadership in addressing the 
socially unacceptable issues that still exist in our society and unfortunately in our industry. We aim to lead and 
show a similar commitment to reducing the gender imbalance issue. Leadership already demonstrated by ABP 
UK in the area of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Modern Slavery, where ABP UK has won awards for its innovative 
and progressive work. 

Vanessa Di Cuffa
ABP UK People Change Director 
March 2018

Attract.Be.Provide

