Gender Pay Gap
Report 2017

Brewers:  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
Brewers is a family business committed to being a 
fair and diverse employer, helping one another to 
succeed regardless of gender.        

Understanding Brewers Pay Gap 

We are pleased to report that with our work to 
date we are making strides and that since the 
snapshot date for this report we have appointed 
female candidates into key senior roles, some of 
which were internal promotions.

The data below shows that in Brewers there 
are significantly more men than women across 
the whole of our business. This is not entirely 
surprising as we operate in what has been 
historically and still is a male dominated sector.      

 

This higher proportion of men, particularly in the 
more highly paid roles, is the main reason for our 
gender pay gap. In fact, if we were to look at the 
lower 3 quartiles alone our pay gap (median or 
mean) would be no more than 1%.    

The reporting requirement takes no account of 
the variance in roles within the business or pay 
ranges within those roles.  As is the case with 
most large businesses, in Brewers there are fewer 
senior roles in the structure with turnover at this 
level much less than at more junior levels. The 
lower turnover rate gives rise to fewer vacancies 
thus limiting the opportunities for progression to 
the senior roles.   

Median

Mean

5.6%

18.5%

This is our overall median (middle) and mean 
(average) gender pay gap based on hourly rates 
of pay as at the snapshot date (5 April 2017).    
The median is significantly better than the 
national average of 18.4% (based on estimate 
from ASHE survey 2017). 

Proportion Of Men And Women In Each Quartile Pay Band

42.8% 57.2%

30% 70%

32.4% 67.6%

21.2% 78.8%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Upper Quartile

Quartile

Quartile

The above image illustrates the gender distribution at Brewers across four equally sized pay quartiles. 
The data shows that Brewers has a much higher percentage of men across all the quartiles but this is 
highest in the Upper Quartile. 

Gender Pay Gap
Report 2017

97.8%

Proportion of Women
 receiving a bonus 

payment

98.8%

Proportion of Men
 receiving a bonus 

payment

We are developing initiatives to:  
       Review our talent management strategies to 
ensure potential is identified and developed at 
all levels across the business regardless of gender.   
       Ensure that inclusion is a normal part of 
who we are and what we do by, for example 
delivering training to anyone involved in 
recruitment so that they understand unconscious 
bias and how this can impact the workplace 
       Improve guidance to managers to help them 
support new employees in their first year and on 
return from extended leave
       Fully utilise information derived from exit 
interviews and recruitment data to improve 
accessibility for all in our recruitment processes.  

I confirm the information reported is accurate 
and meets the requirements of the Equality  
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.    

Alison Lawfield
People Director

Bonus Gap

Median

14.8%

Mean

23.2%

This shows the differences in bonuses paid 
to men and women at Brewers in the year up  
to and including 5 April 2017 together with  
the percentage of men and the percentage of  
women who received a bonus in the same period.   

We are proud that our profit share and long 
service award schemes (included in these bonus 
results) are calculated equally and available  
across all job roles.    

   
How We Can Make A Difference
What the data shows us is that we need to 
improve the gender balance of our staff, 
particularly at senior level. We have made 
advances described above and we are committed 
as a Company to proactively challenge ourselves 
about the underlying reasons for the gap and 
address them.     
We are already working on ways of becoming 
more gender balanced for example
       All vacancies are advertised internally  
across the business and circulated to those on 
long term leave. 
       A career path document is in preparation  
to ensure that all staff understand the 
opportunities within the business and the 
support and development provided so that  
they are best prepared to apply as and when  
the vacancies arise.   
We believe that our existing policies support our 
wider commitment to pay equality and fairness 
for example    
       All staff over the age of 18 are paid our 
full adult pay rate rather than the lower tiers 
permitted under the National Living Wage 
       New starters are immediately paid at the 
full rate for their role, rather than a reduced 
probationary rate

