                    skip to main content       Menu                Your visit         Travel to the National Theatre   Opening times: Mon to Sat: 9.30am – 11pm (except Bank Holidays - check Your visit for details)     Browse the Help Centre   For information on tickets, planning your theatre visit and answers to other frequently asked questions                  Backstage                The National Theatre Podcast   If all the world's a stage, we're the programme notes.          National Theatre Blog   Read about our shows, the NT and more               Shop, eat, drink, hire     In this section:   Online Shop (opens in a new window)  Buy current playtexts (opens in a new window)  Food & drink  Hospitality & Private Hire  Costume & Props Hire  Gift Vouchers        About us     In this section:   Archive  Careers  Diversity  Key Facts and Figures  New Work Department  Press        Learning     In this section:   Primary Schools  Secondary and FE  Young People  Connections  Background packs  Talks and events  Families  Theatreworks        Support us     In this section:   Memberships  Make a Donation  Corporate supporters  Trusts and Foundations  American Associates of the National Theatre      Close          Your visit    Backstage    Shop, eat, drink, hire    About us    Learning    Support us    Login    MyNT         Your visit       Travel to the National Theatre   Opening times: Mon to Sat: 9.30am – 11pm (except Bank Holidays - check Your visit for details)   Browse the Help Centre   For information on tickets, planning your theatre visit and answers to other frequently asked questions                Backstage      The National Theatre Podcast   If all the world's a stage, we're the programme notes.        National Theatre Blog   Read about our shows, the NT and more                   Shop, eat, drink, hire      Online Shop (opens in a new window)  Buy current playtexts (opens in a new window)  Food & drink  Hospitality & Private Hire  Costume & Props Hire  Gift Vouchers          About us      Archive  Careers  Diversity  Key Facts and Figures  New Work Department  Press          Learning      Primary Schools  Secondary and FE  Young People  Connections  Background packs  Talks and events  Families  Theatreworks          Support us      Memberships  Make a Donation  Corporate supporters  Trusts and Foundations  American Associates of the National Theatre              Login    MyNT    Basket    Search   Search      What's on         National Theatre          Sign in to your account  * indicates required fields   Email Address *     Password *     Click here to request a link to set a new password  Login     Don't have an account? Learn the benefits   Create an account                   Absolute Hell     Lyttelton Theatre  From 18 April          Featured Productions  See What's On          Amadeus  Olivier Theatre Final performances           Nine Night  Dorfman Theatre 21 April to 26 May           Macbeth  Olivier Theatre Now playing         Enhanced security measures are in place at the National Theatre. Find out more          Welcome to the National Theatre   On the South Bank of the Thames, in London, the National Theatre presents up to 25 new shows a year. There are three theatres , a learning centre , theatre tours , restaurants , a riverside bar and a bookshop .  Our productions also play in the West End and on tour. We broadcast to cinemas worldwide through National Theatre Live , stream plays free to UK schools , and produce a wealth of digital content about theatre . Find out more about the National Theatre .             American Express Invites   American Express ® Cardmembers can enjoy pre-sale booking for new seasons, reserved seating, special offers and more.      Find out more        Featured Content, News and Events       From the Archive  As Absolute Hell returns to the National Theatre, take a look back at the 1995 production.           What is Nine Night about?  Unfamiliar with the tradition of Nine Nights? Let the cast of Natasha Gordon's new play explain.            What is an Audio-Described Performance?  Join Yusuf on a touch tour and audio-described performance of Mosquitoes .            Making Macbeth  Imogen Knight, choreographer and movement director, takes us inside the rehearsal room.             Help Centre      Frequently asked questions        Frequently asked questions              Stay in touch      Sign up for NT News emails        Sign up for NT News emails       Sponsors:                Quick links  Access  Annual review (opens a new window)  Bookshop (opens a new window)  Careers  Membership  NT Live (opens a new window)  Press  Website help     Hire us  Costume Hire  Props Hire  Hospitality and venue hire     Policies  Donation and Sponsorship Acceptance Statement  Gender Pay Gap Report  Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking  Privacy  Sexual Harassment Policy  Terms and Conditions     Get in touch  Contact us details  Box Office: 020 7452 3000  Stage Door: 020 7452 3333     Social  Follow us on Twitter  Join us on Facebook                   Box Office: 020 7452 3000  Opening Hours  If you have a ticketing question, see if it can be answered in the FAQs of the Tickets section of the Help Centre ?      © National Theatre The Royal National Theatre is a registered charity no.224223. Registered as a company limited by guarantee in England no.749504. Registered Office: Upper Ground, London SE1 9PX   © NationalTheatre The Royal National Theatre is a registered charity no.224223. Registered as a company limited by guarantee in England no.749504. Registered Office: Upper Ground, London SE1 9PX        This site uses cookies. Read what they do here . If you continue to use this site we'll assume you're
            happy
            with this.   This site requires cookies, for account access and ticket
            purchasing.
            It
            looks like cookies are disabled in your browser. Find out more about changing
              your browser cookie settings .    Accept and close              