 

 

GENDER PAY REPORTING 

At  Kew  Green  Hotels  we  believe  that  Outstanding  Vision  without  Outstanding  People  is 
irrelevant.  Our  people  strategy  encompasses  developing  everyone,  every  single  day,  which 
means constantly finding new ways to engage with our 3000+ employees and attract talented 
individuals to our organisation. Without the hearts and minds of our teams we cannot make our 
vision come to life. 

The Kew Green Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy 
of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any 
other characteristic set out above).  

We are confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently 
for the same or equivalent work. Rather any gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which 
men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole,  men  are  more  likely  than  women  to  be  in  senior  roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than men 
to be in front-line roles at the lower end of the organisation. Women are also more likely than 
men to have had breaks from work that may have affected their career progression, for example 
to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are 
available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low paid. 

This  pattern  from  the  UK  economy  as  a  whole  is  reflected  in  the  make-up  of  Kew  Green’s 
workforce, where the majority of front-line guest facing roles within our hotels are held by women 
while a significant proportion (57.1%) of management roles are held by men. 

Proportion of Male and Female Employees per Quartile

70.00%

60.00%

50.00%

40.00%

30.00%

20.00%

10.00%

0.00%

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

Male

Female

 

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender.  

  

Page 1 | 3  

Issue Date 04/18  

 

 

GENDER PAY REPORTING 

This shows Kew Green’s workforce divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay 
rgeates,  with  the  Lower Quartile  including  the  lowest-paid  25%  of  employees  and  the  Upper 
Quartile covering the highest-paid 25%. In order for there to be no gender pay gap, there would 
need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each quartile. However, within Kew Green, 60.6% 
of the employees in the Lower Quartile are women and 39.4% men. The percentage of male 
employees increases throughout the remaining Bands, from 43.1% in the Lower Middle Quartile 
to 57.9% in the Upper Quartile.  

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say 
that Kew Green Hotels’ gap compares  with that of  many other organisations, including those 
within our industry. 

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%. At 
15.1%, Kew Green’s mean gender pay gap is, therefore, lower than that for the whole economy.  

We are proud to report that we have a virtually equal balance of genders employed across our 
business with 49% males and 51% females. 

In respect of bonuses, the mean gender gap and the median gender bonus gap are wider at 
69.3% and 30%. However a higher proportion of female employees receive bonus payments 
than males – 32.2% of females and 27% of males. The relatively wide gaps reflect the broad 
definition of bonus pay in the regulations. This includes our spontaneous and tactical reward 
payments  which  are  frequently  less  than  £200  and  our  annual  performance  related 
management bonuses which may be in excess of £5,000. 

 

GENDER PAY REPORTING* 

Please find listed below the figures that have been reported to The Government Equalities Office 
in answer to the questions posed.  

Pay Gaps 

Difference in hourly rate of pay - Mean 

Difference in hourly rate of pay – Median 

Difference in bonus pay – Mean 

Difference in bonus pay – Median 

 

Bonus Proportions 

15.1% 

3.6% 

69.3% 

30.0% 

Percentage of Males who received bonus pay 

27.0% 

Percentage of Females who received bonus pay 

32.2% 

 

 

  

Page 2 | 3  

Issue Date 04/18  

GENDER PAY REPORTING 

 

 

 

Employees Pay by Quartile 

Gender 

Lower Quartile 

Male 

39.37% 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Quartile 

43.11% 

Quartile 

54.53% 

Upper Quartile 

57.87% 

Female 

60.63% 

56.89% 

45.47% 

42.13% 

 

All figures calculated at the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 

 

Kew Green Hotels is proud to be a fair and equitable employer. We are confident that our HR 
processes and practices ensure that our colleagues are not paid differently due to gender.  

I, Alex Pritchard, Chief Executive Officer, confirm that the information in this statement is 
accurate. 

4th April 2018 

 

 

  

Page 3 | 3  

Issue Date 04/18  

