Gender Pay Report

UK legislation now requires any organisation with 250 or more 
employees to publish some key pieces of data about their gender 
pay gap by 4 April 2018. The legislation relates to employees  
which means that members of the LLP are not included in the  
published data.

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings 
of men and women. It is different from equal pay which is about 
men and women receiving equal pay for equal work. 

David Pollitt, our Managing Partner, and I have on many occasions 
expressed our commitment to building a diverse and inclusive 
workplace that nurtures and celebrates the talents of all. 
 
We want to create an environment where talented people want 
to work and where different talents are valued and respected. 
We believe that diversity of perspective, background and cultural 
experience is critical to our ability to create sustainable value for 
you and our clients - we know that difference of views drives 

The data required by the legislation

fresh thinking and improves the way we manage our risks. This is 
why Diversity and Inclusion is one of the five pillars of our People 
Strategy. As part of this strategy we have committed to achieving 
greater diversity within the leadership of the firm, which, from 
a gender perspective, means we are working to retain, inspire 
and develop more women into senior roles. We believe that is a 
fundamental part of being a responsible business. 

Analysing and understanding our workforce profile, which is often 
an important underlying feature of gender pay gaps, helps to 
inform our approach to Diversity and Inclusion.

As required by the legislation, I confirm that the information in this 
report is true and accurate.

Virginia Clegg 
Senior Partner, DAC Beachcroft

This data is based on employees of DAC Beachcroft Services Limited, all of whom work either in DAC Beachcroft LLP or  
DAC Beachcroft Claims Limited. Like many, we are a work in progress. On key gender metrics we are better than some,  
but not as good as others.  

Hourly pay gap

Quartiles

  Hourly pay gap

Bonus gap

  Bonus gap

Mean

27.1%

Mean

44.8%

Median

22.6%

Median

42%

Proportion who received bonus (M/F)

54.2%

57.3%

Male

Female

The legislation requires us to identify our overall pay range,  
divide it into equal sized quartiles and report on the  
percentage of men and women in each quartile.

Male

47.4%

Female

Proportion in Upper Quartile (M/F)

52.6%

Proportion in Upper Middle Quartile (M/F)

36.5%

63.5%

Proportion in Lower Middle Quartile (M/F)

30.5%

27.5%

69.5%

Proportion in Lower Quartile (M/F)

72.5%

DAC Beachcroft | Gender Pay Report

What we see in our quartile distribution is almost equal numbers 
of men and women in the upper quartile, which is a pleasing result.  
However, the higher proportion of women than men in all the 
other quartiles has the effect of diluting the impact of the females 
in the top quartile on the average female salary.  

This distribution, and particularly the predominance of women in 
the lower quartiles , in part reflects the fact that more women than 
men are now entering the profession. The female strength in law 
graduates, training contracts and new admissions is reflected in  
our own workforce where 67% of our fee earners at  
Senior Associate (Associate in CSG) and below are female.

We also see the skewing effect of the high proportion of women 
compared to men in our secretarial and administrative roles which 
is reflected in our lower quartile data where 72.5% are female.

Our bonus gap warrants specific comment because it is bigger 
than our regular pay gap. There are a number of factors which 
contribute to this difference.

The legislation requires us to include the actual bonus amounts 
received by part time colleagues. This creates a gap when part time 
fee earners’ bonuses are compared to those of full time, fee earning 
colleagues. This disproportionately affects women because 91.4% 
of part time fee earners who received a bonus are female. 

Another feature which affects the bonus data is the different 
nature of the bonus schemes for fee earning and business 
support colleagues. The predominantly female secretarial and 
administrative population are part of a scheme which awards 
fixed amounts. Fee earners’ schemes award variable amounts, 
depending on performance against financial targets. Added to this, 
there are currently fewer women than men in senior roles within 
business support.

What causes gender pay gaps?

Looking across the UK workforce as a whole, there are many (often related) reasons for gender pay gaps including: fewer women at 
senior levels in businesses; women taking on a greater share of caring responsibilities; more women working part-time; occupational 
segregation, or unconscious bias.

To help understand our pay data, it is useful to consider our workforce profile and, in particular, the impact of our having a  
significantly higher proportion of women in non fee earning business support roles. 

Workforce profile

Fee earners

Business Support

Percentage of fee earning  
population who are male/female

Percentage of Business Support  
population who are male/female

69%

31%

38.8%
male

28.2%
male

Fee earners

61.2%
female

Business 
Support

71.7%
female

Percentage of male and female  
population who are fee earners

Male

Female

75%

65%

Female salaried partners

Bonus recipients

37%

of bonus recipients 
work part time

22%

95% of part time  

bonus recipients  
are female

DAC Beachcroft | Gender Pay Report

Our response

There isn’t a single quick fix solution to the root causes of a gender pay gap. It is a complex issue but we believe that the key to addressing 
it is in our continued focus on the connected elements of our Diversity and Inclusion strategy, actively supported and sponsored by our 
senior leadership team. 

From a gender perspective we are committed to continuing these activities: 

Inspiring and developing women into senior leadership roles

We have seen some real progress with the gender balance of our senior leadership roles and we are committed to 
building on this. As part of this commitment, we continue to monitor,  review and report on our leadership profile :

Male

70%

67%

73%

Female

Male

Female

Group Board

Executive Board

Business Services Executive

30%

33%

27%

69%

75%

79%

Finance Executive

Sector Heads

Cluster Heads

31%

25%

21%

Mentoring, coaching and leadership development 

These development activities are an important part of our commitment to achieving greater diversity within the  
firm’s leadership and are examples of our being committed to supporting our colleagues to succeed, including 
promotion success. 

Monitoring the gender make up of our talent pipeline 

We actively analyse the make up of our business and monitor the composition of each area of the business by  
group, location and job role. This includes an analysis by gender of successful promotion candidates. We will continue 
to seek to understand and guard against potential barriers to progression. 

In 2017, for example, the profile of our promotions by gender represents reasonable balance in most areas and 
progress overall : 

Promotions in May 2017

Female promotions in the LLP in May 2017 (by role)

Male

Female

48%

52%

60%

71%

47%

Salaried Partner

Legal Director

Senior Associate

i

Access to senior role models 

Inspiration and encouragement, through strong internal networks, help colleagues feel valued and play an important 
role in career development. Events organised through our Women’s Groups and through mentoring and coaching 
relationships, help to build a culture of accessible leadership, including direct access to our Senior Partner – one of the 
few women in this role in the sector – and to other senior board executives.

Agile and flexible working

We are committed to not losing colleagues because of the challenge of balancing work and caring responsibilities. 
Agile and flexible working, applicable to male and female colleagues, is an important part of our evolving response. 

Improving return to work experience 

We recognise how important it is to have support when returning to work from maternity leave/other parental 
leave or long periods of absence. Our Parent & Carers Forum brings together a group of colleagues – most of whom 
are working parents – through which we can discuss concerns, make recommendations, and help our colleagues 
reconnect with the firm effectively.

