Gender Pay Report 

March 2018

We are glad this reporting has shined a light on an important issue and we are using it as a catalyst for change.
 
There  are  a  few  key  factors  that  influence  the  top  headline  numbers  –  from  the  percentage  of  women  in 
leadership positions, to the gender makeup of specific teams in the business… like tech, which is majority male, 
and retail and customer care, which are majority female.
  
The problem isn’t attracting top female talent to ASOS – 64% of our current population is female and we’ve 
had more than 100,000 CVs in the past five months. We are also confident that for equivalent roles, men and 
women are paid the same.
 
So that suggests that the challenges are with specific parts of the business where there is a more significant 
gender imbalance and ensuring that there is a clear path for women into leadership positions.  

We’ve taken many steps in the right direction, but there is still more to do. We also understand that meaningful 
change takes time and has to happen outside of ASOS as well as inside. But as a starting point, we commit to:
 
 
 

Creating development and mentoring programmes to support career progression for women into  
leadership positions.

 

 
 

Enhancing our ‘Family Friendly’ policies, including parental leave and flexible working, to ensure  
that they are best in class.

Funding 10 scholarships per year to encourage more women to study STEM topics in universities  
and expand the work we are currently doing with schools and organisations like Stemettes and  
Girls Who Code.

 
 
 
 
And to ensure that meaningful action is taken, we will be investing a minimum of £1 million to support these 
efforts in the coming year.
 
If we do all of this right, our aspiration is to have a leadership team that is more evenly balanced and better 
reflects our customer base.
 
The gender pay gap reporting has brought all of this to the forefront, but the commitments and changes we are 
making are not because of the reporting. We are doing it because it’s right for our ASOSers, our business, and 
our customers. 
 
We want every single employee at ASOS, whoever they are, to have the confidence to be their best and do their 
best work. We are committed to doing everything we can to make this happen.

Nick Beighton, ASOS CEO

As of 6 April 2017, the UK government introduced new gender pay gap reporting legislation requiring large employers 
with more than 250 employees in the UK to calculate and publish their gender pay and gender bonus gaps annually. 

How are gender pay and equal pay different?

 

Gender pay and equal pay are two very different measures.

We are publishing our gender pay stats in line with UK government regulations. 

Gender Pay

Shows the difference in average pay between 
all men and women within a company – it’s a 
collective comparison.

It’s about gender diversity across all levels.

Focused  on  the  diversity  of  workforce  rather 
than  equal  pay  for  similar  jobs  –  it  doesn’t 
mean there’s an equal pay issue.
 

vs.

Equal Pay

Compares the pay of a man and a woman who 
hold the same roles within a company –  it’s an 
individual comparison.

It’s against the law to pay people unequally 
because of their gender. 

Equal Pay legislation has been around for more 
than 40 years.

Calculations explained

Mean
Is the difference between the average hourly rate of pay between men and women.

We take the pay data of all ASOSers employed on 5 April 2017.

This includes many different roles that have different rates of pay.

Mean average

Male average

vs.

The average is worked out by adding together all the hourly rates of pay for women at ASOS, and then dividing by the 
total number of women. The same is done for male hourly pay. This gives us a central value of hourly pay for men and 
women - the mean gap displays the difference between these two averages.

Female average

These mean calculations are also applied to compare bonus pay over a 12-month period from April 2016 to April 2017.

Median
Imagine all our female ASOSers stood next to each other in one line in order of lowest hourly rate of pay to highest, and 
imagine the same picture for our male ASOSers.

The median gender pay gap is the difference in pay between the female ASOSer in the middle of their line and the male 
ASOSer in the middle of their line.

The same median calculations are done by comparing bonus pay over a 12-month period ending on 5 April 2017.

What’s included
Calculations of mean and median pay and of quartile pay bands are based on data from the month of April 2017, including 
ordinary pay and bonus pay.

Ordinary pay includes salaries, allowances, pay for leave and shift premium pay. It doesn’t include pay for overtime, pay relating 
to redundancy/termination of employment, pay in lieu of leave or the value of benefits which are not in the form of money. 

Bonus pay includes any additional payments relating to profit sharing, productivity, performance, incentive or commission. 
This includes bonuses paid in cash, vouchers, shares and share options. Calculations of mean and median bonus pay use 
bonus pay from the twelve months ending on 5 April 2017.

Lowest 
paid

Median

Highest
paid

What are our results?

Mean

Pay Gap
32.8%

Median
Pay Gap
40.9%

Mean

Bonus Gap
53.5%

Median

Bonus Gap
46.4%

The difference in mean (average) 
hourly  pay  between  all  men  and 
women

The  difference  in  median  hourly 
pay between all men and women

The  difference 
paid to men and women

in  mean  bonus 

The  difference  in  median  bonus 
paid to men and women

The proportion of male and  female employees who were paid any amount of bonus pay

Men not receiving

Men receiving

63.4% of men at ASOS receive a bonus

Women not receiving

Women receiving
65.7% of women at ASOS receive a bonus

What are our results? (page 2)

The  proportion  of  male  and  female  employees  in  four  quartile  hourly  rate  pay  bands  ranked  from 
lowest hourly rate to the highest hourly rate. It is done by dividing the workforce into four equal parts. 

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Women make up 77% of ASOSers 
in the lowest paid quartile

Women  make  up  71%  of 
ASOSers in Q2

Women  make  up  68%  of 
ASOSers in Q3

Women make up 41% of ASOSers 
in the highest paid quartile

Men

Women

Calculating the quartiles

All of our male and female ASOSers were ranked in order from the lowest paid to the highest paid and then split into four groups:

Q1 =  the bottom 0 – 25% of the list
Q2 =  the next 25 – 50% of the list 

Q3 =  the upper 50% – 75% of the list
Q4 =  the top 75% – 100% of the list 

Understanding the gap

We are confident that men and women are paid equally for equivalent roles. However, the factors 

below provide context to the mean and median pay gap across male and female populations at ASOS. 

1. Insourced versus outsourced functions

We insource customer care which is comprised of mainly entry-level roles and is 63% female

Our retail team also has a large number of entry-level roles and is 85% female

We outsource our distribution, which tends to have mainly entry-level roles, of which the majority are filled by men

This results in a gender imbalance at the entry pay level

Men
Women

Customer care is 63% female

Our retail team is 85% female

Although ASOS is 64% female overall, we have more men in our most senior roles with 73% of the leadership team being male

2. The gender balance in leadership roles

Men
Women

ASOS is 64% female overall

73% of leadership team are male

3. Women in technology

Technology is a sector that has historically attracted more men, which is a challenge that needs to be addressed at school age, rather than 

just in the working world

We are committed to recruiting more women into tech roles as well as encouraging women to study STEM topics in schools and universities

This challenge is larger than any one company – with only 21% of the core STEM (science, technology, engineering and maths) workforce 

in the UK being female* – and will require fundamental shifts in the education system and support across all UK tech businesses

The ASOS tech team is currently 24% female

*WISE UK statistics, 2016/17.  www.wisecampaign.org.uk/uploads/wise/files/WISE_Annual_Report_v81.pdf

Men
Women

UK - 21% of women in STEM

ASOS tech team is 24% female

Our commitments

Based on the key factors we have outlined as contributing to the gender pay gap at ASOS, we commit to:
 
1. Creating development and mentoring programmes to support career progression for women into  
     leadership positions.

2. Enhancing our ‘Family Friendly’ policies, including parental leave and flexible working, to ensure that 
     they are best in class.

3. Funding 10 scholarships per year to encourage more women to study STEM topics in universities and  
    expand the work we are currently doing with schools and organisations like Stemettes and Girls Who Code.
 
And to ensure that meaningful action is taken, we will be investing a minimum of £1 million to support these efforts in the 
coming year.
 
We understand that long term change will take time, and must involve action both inside and outside of ASOS. However, we 
believe this is a strong starting point and will help us work towards a business, and a leadership team, that is evenly balanced 
and more closely reflects our diverse customer base.

