Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

This year, as part of its commitment to reducing the UK’s gender pay gap, the UK government is 
asking all employers with 250 or more employees in England, Scotland and Wales to publish their 
gender pay gap. Gender pay gap reporting does not represent equal pay. Equal pay relates to men 
and women being paid differently for ‘like work’ or ‘work of equal value’ and has been prohibited 
under UK law since the 1970s. We are committed to ensuring equal pay through regular monitoring 
and analysis and are confident that our gender pay gap is not an equal pay issue.  

Gender Pay Gap 

Our gender pay gap is reported using the mean and the median, as follows; 

Mean:    

-19.5% 

Median:  

-21.5% 

Gender Bonus Gap 

Our gender bonus gap is also reported using the mean and median, as follows; 

Mean:   

-241.4% 

Median: 

46.1% 

The proportion of our employees who received a bonus payment is shown as a percentage; 

Males:   

4.5% 

Females: 

10.5% 

Pay Distribution 

We have split the hourly pay rates of our workforce into four pay quartiles. We have then calculated 
the proportion of men and women in each quartile, and the distribution is shown as a percentage; 

 

 

 

Upper Quartile   

 

 

Upper Middle Quartile   

Lower Middle Quartile   

Lower Quartile   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Men 

72.9% 

80.0% 

85.9% 

82.3% 

 

 

 

 

 

             Women 

 

 

 

 

27.1% 

20.0% 

14.1% 

17.7% 

 

 

 

What Do Our Figures Show? 

The operational nature of our Company has historically led to a disproportionate representation of 
men and women across the departments within the organisation. Men represent 89% of our 
operational workforce which has a significant impact on the figures, above. 

Gender Pay Gap: 

Our figures appear to suggest that there isn’t a gender pay gap within our business; whilst we do 
recognise an imbalance in our male to female staffing numbers across the quartiles. 

Gender Bonus Gap: 

Whilst I am pleased to note that a higher proportion of women than men receive a bonus in this 
company, the median figure suggests that we have a gender bonus gap.  However, this is distorted 
by the inclusion of senior-level employee remuneration.  The more senior an employee, the greater 
their bonus payment is likely to be. Conversely, employees in lower paid roles will receive smaller 
bonuses.  

What Are We Doing About This? 

Our lack of a gender pay gap emphasises the importance of our agenda to remove any unintentional 
hindrances to progression. The Company is committed to ensuring that all roles in our business are 
accessible to those with the skills and experience who wish to work there regardless of gender, and 
we will continue to take steps to encourage all our people to reach the highest level to which they 
aspire.  

As a result of continuous advancement in technology, the Company is seeking to implement new 
technologies, where possible, in order to bring the Company into a position of greater operational 
efficiency. As a result, we intend to become an organisation with much less manual reliance within 
our operational departments. We are confident that this will help to promote a more gender-
balanced workforce in the future as we look to represent the community in which we operate.  

 

 

I confirm that the data in this report has been calculated according to the requirements of the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

Tariq Mahmood 

Finance Director 

