2018 gender 
pay gap report

for CET Group Holdings Limited
For the period 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017

Giving our all.

Introduction

This year, for the first time, all large businesses in the UK with 
more than 250 employees are required to report on their gender 
pay gap.

We at CET welcome this opportunity.

Our organisation is committed to being transparent about the 
data. CET will commit to closing the gap by identifying areas 
where we can make a change and regularly reviewing and 
reporting on this.

As of March 2018, CET employs 400 people in a diverse range of 
roles across 11 sites.

We want to ensure that inclusion and diversity is a priority across 
our business. CET will commit to creating a culture where 
everyone has an equal chance of development and success.

I confirm that all the information contained in the report is true 
and accurate.

Peter Eglinton

Chief Executive Officer

2

About the 
gender 
pay gap

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average 
earnings of male and female employees across an organisation.

It is different from equal pay, which refers to each gender being 
paid the same for:

•

the same or broadly similar work;

• work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or

• work of equal value.

CET is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees.

This is regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or 
civil partnership, pregnancy / maternity, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment or disability.

We have a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same 
or equivalent work, regardless of their sex, or any other 
characteristic set out above.

3

CET’s business areas

Property Assurance

The Property Assurance business provides insurance claim 
management services. This includes taking home emergency 
calls and arranging engineer visits, investigating and repairing 
drain problems, subsidence monitoring and data services.

Infrastructure

The Infrastructure business carries out tests on the materials 
that make up the new construction projects in the UK. 
Examples include testing the strength of concrete and the 
materials that make up new roads.

Calibration

The Calibration business tests the accuracy of measuring 
equipment (such as pressure gauges), and re-calibrates if 
necessary. Clients range from food manufacturers to electrical 
installers.

4

Our workforce

During April 2017, CET had employed 214 male and 61 female employees. The uneven split was more dominant in 
the Infrastructure side of the business.

Historically the materials testing industry had been a male dominated workforce. We therefore recognise that there 
will be challenges in the Infrastructure part of our business, but CET nevertheless sees this as an opportunity to 
make change.

Our back-office roles were much more evenly split. Our senior management were predominately male but we are 
pleased to say we have recruited two women into senior management positions in the last 6 months and will 
continue to look to improve upon this.

5

Pay and bonus gaps

Gender pay gap
The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly rates of pay 
that male and females employees received. This gives an overall indication 
of the gender pay gap by taking all hourly rates of pay and dividing by the 
total number of people in scope.

The median gender pay gap shows the difference in the midpoints of the 
ranges of hourly rates of pay for men and women by ordering individual 
rates of pay from lowest to highest and comparing the middle value.

Mean
30.31%

Median
14.81%

Gender bonus gap
The mean gender bonus gap is the difference in average bonus pay that 
male and female employees received.

Mean
83.01%

Median
3.92%

The median gender bonus gap shows the difference in the midpoints of the 
ranges of bonus pay received by men and women.

Proportion of male and female employees who received a bonus

Female

Male

42.62%

51.40%
6

Males and females by pay quartile

This is the percentage of male and female employees in four 
quartile pay bands (dividing our workforce into four equal parts).

For example, the lowest 25% of earners (band A) at CET 
consisted of 27.53% female and 72.46% male.

Similarly, the highest 25% of earners (band D) at CET consisted 
of 10.14% female and 89.85% male.

Band A

Band B

Female
27.53%

Female 
27.94%

Male 
72.46%

Male 
72.05%

Band C

Female 
23.18%

Band D

Female 
10.14%

Male 
76.81%

Male 
89.85%

7

Commentary

There is a gender pay gap of 15% which CET recognises is lower than the national average for the UK.

CET is confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work.

Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation. The 
salaries that these roles attract and the industry sector that we work within has been historically been male 
dominated.

Specifically, our gender pay gap is driven by having more men in senior management positions and an imbalance 
of gender in the Infrastructure side of our business where we have a predominately male workforce.

Our most significant challenges

Fewer women in senior and management roles

This is highlighted in the quartile bands where in the upper bands the proportion of men is significantly higher.
At CET we are aware of this gap and will continue to focus our efforts on more equal representation at senior and 
management roles. 

A significantly higher proportion of men in the infrastructure division than women

We currently employ a ratio of 6:1 male to female in our infrastructure division. We will commit to looking at ways 
to create a more equal balance through recruitment and attraction methods.

8

Our commitment to closing the gap
At CET we are committed to addressing the gender pay gap and also the gender imbalance in the workforce. We will do this by 
focussing on three key areas: Recruitment, Culture, and Training & Development.

Recruitment
• We will explore how we can attract more women into our industry to create a more even gender balance. 

• We will continue to review our recruitment practices to eliminate bias and support hiring managers to 

consider inclusion in their decisions.

Culture
•

Promote flexible working practices across the business to include home working

•

Implement enhanced pay for maternity and shared parental leave

Training & Development
• We will invest in talent to ensure where possible we can develop women into management roles

•

Tackle unconscious bias by delivering coaching and training to hiring managers 

1

2

3

9

