Gender Pay Reporting 

Organisational context 

Umbrella Paraplus Limited is a payroll umbrella company. 

Where a temporary worker is contracted through an agency directly working for a hiring organisation, 
the worker remains the employee of the agency.  Where a hiring organisation uses Umbrella Paraplus, 
the temporary worker will be set up as an employee of Umbrella Paraplus for the purposes of pay and 
conditions. 

For the purposes of gender pay  reporting, this  creates  an unusual set of circumstances  where  the 
agency will supply the worker, the hiring organisation will set the pay rate for an individual and the 
individual will be paid by Umbrella Paraplus. 

Due to the temporary nature of the work undertaken by employees of Paraplus, the relevant data for 
the pay and bonus calculations is likely to reflect multiple job assignments, even within the relevant 
pay period for some individuals which also makes it difficult to make comparisons. 

The calculations 

In  accordance  with  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender Pay  Gap Information)  Regulations 2017, we  are 
publishing the results of the following calculations: 

•

•

•

•

•

•

The median gender pay gap
The mean gender pay gap
The median gender bonus pay gap
The mean gender bonus pay gap
The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus
The proportion of males and females in each of pay quartiles

Gender pay gap 

Where male and female workers are contracted to do the same role, there is no differential between 
their rate of pay. 

Gender  pay  gap  reporting  is  an  analysis  of  the  overall  differentials  between  the  male  and  female 
populations across all roles. 

This analysis shows a mean gender pay gap of 14% and the median gender pay gap to be 9%. 

Because of the nature of the worker population and the way in which their employment relationship 
is structured, as has been previously described, it is hard to be certain about the reasons behind the 
differential.   

The overall population of relevant employees is predominantly male (83%).  Roles undertaken by this 
workforce are primarily warehouse operatives, delivery drivers and class 1/class 2 drivers with a small 
proportion of administration workers. 

 
 
The pay gap may be a reflection of the premiums associated with some driver qualifications (whose 
population  is  predominantly  male)  because  of  a  relative  scarcity  of  skills  and  the  requirement  for 
specific qualifications when compared with administration roles (with a higher proportion of female 
workers) where the candidate pool is wider with few if any qualification requirements.  

 

Gender bonus pay gap 

We have found a relatively large differential in the bonuses paid between males and females in our 
relevant population.  The mean gender bonus pay gap is 54% and the median is 61%.  As can be seen 
under the next heading, we have identified that a very small proportion overall receive a bonus.  The 
high median bonus differential may be skewed by the fact that the number of females with a bonus is 
fewer than a handful.  For the reasons already explained, it is not possible to definitively identify the 
reasons behind the gender bonus gap. 

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus 

The proportion of workers receiving a bonus overall is low, with only 108 of 1,608 relevant workers 
receiving a bonus.  The proportion of males receiving a bonus is 8% and the proportion of females is 
1%. 

An analysis of the type of bonus received identifies that the majority fall under the broad category of 
productivity bonus and it is mainly the warehouse operatives and delivery drivers who benefit from 
these  bonuses.   Drawing on  the  fact  that these  roles  are  predominantly occupied  by males  would 
appear to explain the differential between the proportion on males and the proportion of females 
receiving a bonus. 

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

The table below details the proportion of males and females in each of the pay quartiles. 

Regardless of the fact that the overall proportion of males to females is high, this illustrates a greater 
proportion of males in the upper quartiles and a great proportion of women in the lower quartiles.  As 
stated in the earlier section, this may be an indication of the typically higher hourly rates attracted by 
HGV and multi-drop drivers when compared to administration hourly rates.   

 

Male % 
Female % 

LQ 
67 
33 

LMQ 
86 
14 

UMQ 
88 
12 

UQ 
93 
7 

Total 
83 
17 

 

What can we do to close the gap? 

As an intermediary, Umbrella Paraplus doesn’t  set rates or source candidates and so has a limited 
impact on reducing the gender pay gap.  We believe there is a wider implication to our findings and 
those  of  other  organisations  which  is  that  there  are  still  roles  which  are  dominated  by  males  and 
others which tend to be predominantly taken up by females. 

Umbrella  Paraplus  is  committed  to  equality  of  opportunity  and  will  be  using  these  findings  in 
discussions with the organisations we work with to allow them to have an even clearer understanding 
of the gender pay gap of their temporary workforce in order that they can add further facts to support 
initiatives already have in place, such as increasing the number of female drivers.  

Andrew Preston 
Chief Executive Officer 
Umbrella Paraplus 

