UK Gender Pay Gap Report

Illumina’s mission is to improve human health by unlocking the power of the genome. We’ve built a culture fueled by innovation, 
collaboration and openness, which has allowed us to become the global leader in DNA sequencing and array-based technologies. 
Illumina’s people and technology change lives by driving advancements in research, oncology, reproductive health, agriculture and 
genomics. Illumina employees are deeply passionate about what they do, because the work has the power to improve lives. 

By our DNA we are 99% the same, but our experiences and perspectives can be very different. Illumina is always open to different 
perspectives and new ideas. We collaborate deeply and inclusively to ensure all voices are heard. Diversity of thought and intellectual 
curiosity is a competitive advantage that has proven to drive innovation in genomics.

We continually strive to attract, retain, develop and reward talent - regardless of gender, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or sexual 
orientation. We’re committed to helping diverse and inclusive talent thrive, whether it’s through our support for working parents or carers, 
our innovative approach to student recruitment, or targeted actions to ensure an inclusive environment for women and ethnic minorities. 

Illumina believes that no one should be paid differently because of their gender, and so we welcome the UK Gender Pay Gap legislation. 
Like many companies, our report has highlighted a diversity gap in the number of women in senior roles in our UK operations. Our efforts 
will continue to be focused on building a gender balanced, diverse workforce and continue to grow our inclusive and caring culture for 
the benefit of all employees and customers.

Our Results
Gender Pay & Bonus Gap

Difference between men and women
Gender Pay Gap 
Hourly pay as of April 2017
Gender Bonus Pay Gap 
12 months up to 5th April 2017

Mean

Median

16.0%

15.5%

40.7%

53.4%

Illumina proactively engaged with PwC to assist with the UK 
gender pay gap and gender bonus gap calculations to ensure 
they were carried out in accordance with the regulations. Based 
on the Government’s methodology, our pay gap results are based 
on average hourly pay as of April 2017 and our gender bonus gap 
results are based on average bonuses awarded in the year up to 
5 April 2017. Our company bonus programme was not awarded 
in this performance year and, therefore, the statistics shown 
are largely influenced by historic equity awards vesting, sales 
commission and other incentives. 

Proportion of men and women 
who received a bonus

Received  
a bonus

Did not receive  
a bonus

25.0%

75.0%

23.6%

76.4%

Women

Men

Our Results Explained

Based on the Government’s methodology, our results show a 
median pay gap of 15.5%. Although this is below the 18.1% 
national average, we are not satisfied with an average result and 
remain committed to do more.

Unlike equal pay, which refers to paying a man and a woman 
the same amount for the same, or similar work, a pay gap is 
the difference in average pay between men and women in an 
organisation. The main reason for the gap is that we have more 
men in our senior positions than women and, therefore, this 
increases the average pay and bonuses calculated for men 
overall. This means having a pay gap using this methodology is 
likely to persist until organisations have fair representation of men, 
women and ethnic minorities at every level — something we are 
passionate about addressing.

We note that a significant proportion of the senior positions in the 
UK are in the areas of research and development and women in 
STEM occupations are historically underrepresented. While there 
is progress being made in STEM sector growth, the rate at which 
women are entering STEM jobs does not yet out-pace that of 
men. As such, we are also focused on early stage educational 
programmes that can enhance talent pipelines. 

We are confident that we do not have an equal pay issue.  
Our pay policies and practises are designed to compensate 
employees within their salary range based on skills, experience 
and performance for the role and level.

We regularly monitor our pay structures, analysing internal equity 
data and external market competitiveness. Recent internal 
analysis showed that when comparable base salaries for the same 
roles at the same level where evaluated the gap was significantly 
less at 1.38%. 

In the last 12 months 45% of new hires were women and 46% of 
our most senior roles appointed were women. 

We believe our current activities and future commitments will enable 
our goal of a gender balanced, diverse and inclusive workforce.

Proportion of men and women  
in each pay quartile (April 2017)

Proportion of men and women 
in each Illumina level (April 2017)

Upper

Upper middle

Sr Director +

Manager – Director

65.6%

34.4%

68.7%

31.3%

80%

20%

61.4%

38.6%

Lower middle

Lower

Intermediate – Sr Professional

Support – Entry Professional

50.8%

49.2%

46.7%

53.3%

49.5%

50.5%

44.3%

55.7%

Men

Women

Men

Women

How we will improve this gap

ATTRACT
•  We have created a new Global Diversity  

and Inclusion Director position which will help 
focus and formalise our collective efforts in this 
important area.

•  We are committed to consider at least one 

man and one woman candidate for every 
senior position.

RETAIN
•  We continue to actively support the Illumina 

Women’s Leadership Network. This network is 
focused on providing opportunities for leaders 
to share their experiences & career advice and 
create a broader community to support the 
growth and development of women leaders.

•  Illumina’s shared parental leave policies aim to 

make being a working parent gender neutral 
and accessible by all parents. We will seek 
to break down stereotypes and create an 
inclusive environment.

•  Ensure our policies and practices reflect our 

values and enable an inclusive workplace.

DEVELOP
•  We will increase local STEM activities in local 

schools and universities to help build a diverse 
talent pipeline.

•  We will continue to develop and deliver a 
wide range of learning and development 
programmes (technical & soft skills) for all 
employees to enhance career development.

REWARD
•  We will continue to drive awareness and 

education of our compensation philosophy  
and programs.

•  We will highlight gender pay data to managers 
as part of any compensation decision making 
process (hiring, promotions, merit allocations etc.)

I confirm the Illumina pay gap data provided has been collated in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

Paula Dowdy
SVP & EMEA General Manager

Rebecca Edwards
Director Human Resources, EMEA

Document # 5743

