 
 
 
 
 

  

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

INTRODUCTION  

At Engine, we’re committed to creating a workplace that supports and reflects our 
fundamental belief in diversity and inclusivity.  

Ensuring that we provide the same pay and opportunities for men and women is an 
important part of this commitment.  

We provide equal pay for equal work. That means we rigorously review pay across the 
company to ensure that all employees are paid fairly and equally for the work that they do. 
But we know we currently have more men than women in senior positions (which tend to 
have higher salaries), creating a Gender Pay Gap.  

We’re aware of the imbalance in senior roles at Engine, and are actively working to fix it 
through our Better with Balance scheme. While there is still a lot to do, we are making good 
progress and remain committed to achieving our goal of a 50/50 gender split across Engine 
leadership roles by 2020. 

GENDER PAY GAP AND EQUAL PAY  

The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly earnings of all men and 
women in an organisation irrespective of role.  

This is different to Equal Pay which sets out that Men and Women working in the same or 
similar role must be paid equally for the work that they do.   

We are proud to say that at Engine we have a strong track record in paying men and women 
who work in the same, or similar role, equally. We review, benchmark and conduct regular 
Equal Pay audits, to ensure parity in relation to remuneration and promotion. 

When we map the male and female salaries against years of experience, we see an almost 
perfect alignment of the “line of best fit” across the population. This demonstrates that we 
pay men and women similar amounts for similar experience levels. 

2  

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP METHODOLOGY  

We have calculated Engines gender pay gap according to the UK governments 
methodology: 

Our relevant pay period is April 2017.  

Our ‘snapshot date’ is 5 April 2017. 

Only Engine employees receiving their full rate of pay (i.e. those not receiving SSP, SMP, 
ShPP, SAP, SPP) and who are employed on the snapshot date (5 April 2017) are included in 
our calculations. 

Any employees employed on 5 April 2017 who are part-time have had their pay / bonus 
payments prorated to a full time equivalent. 

Our report includes calculations using both the mean and the median.  

3  

 

GENDER PAY QUARTILES  

The Chart below illustrates the proportion of male and female employees who fall within the 
four quartiles that we are required to report on.  

For clarity, the percentages do not show salary differential, only the % of men and the % of 
women employees within each band. 

Although it’s not a legal requirement, we have also chosen to include the mean and median 
pay gap within each quartile.  

This data shows that for the different quartiles of our population, we have extremely low 
levels of gender pay gap, except for the senior level quartile. This increase can be is due to 
higher numbers of male employees than female employees in senior positions. 

 

4  

GENDER PAY GAP 

Because senior roles tend to have higher average pay than junior roles, AND because we 
have demographic imbalance (more men in senior roles than women), these two factors 
combine to create our Gender Pay Gap.  

The charts below illustrate the mean and median gender pay gap across Engine based on 
hourly rates of pay. 

 

WHAT ARE WE DOING TO ADDRESS OUR GPG? 

Our Gender Pay Gap is created by our demographic imbalance.  We have more men in 
senior roles than women in senior roles. Therefore, the solution is to address this imbalance 
by getting more women into senior roles. 

Taking a proactive approach to tackling our demographic balance at this level will have a 
positive effect on our Gender Pay Gap, but this will take time.  

We have created a short film which confirms our Gender pay gap, explains what causes it 
and most importantly highlights what we’re doing to fix it. 

 

GENDER BONUS GAP REPORTING 

As well as reporting our Gender Pay Gap data we are also required to publish Engines 
Gender Bonus Gap Data.  Our gender bonus reporting must outline the: 
•  Difference between male and female median and mean bonus pay 
•  Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus 

The data must include all bonus, commission, STIP, LTIP payments for the period 1 April 
2016 up to 31 March 2017 made to all employees. LTIP payments are long term incentive 
plans – and are given to senior members of staff to reward long term improvements in 
commercial performance. 

Engines Bonus Gap data is illustrated in the charts below.  

5  

 

 

 

Our 2016/2017 GBG has been skewed by some LTIP payments made to a few senior 
employees, which due to the demographic at this level were primarily male. 

However, LTIPs are paid infrequently, and therefore using data which includes these 
payments does not represent a “normal” year. We have therefore shown the data excluding 
LTIP payments below as this provides a more representative picture of what we would 
usually see in other years.  

 

 

6  

 

IN SUMMARY  

Engine pay equal pay for equal work 

Our imbalance of men and woman at senior levels creates our gender pay which is currently 
28% Median and 24% Mean. 

We have already made steps to proactively  
address this through our Better with Balance 2020  
(BwB 2020) initiative.  

The Five Strands of BWB 2020 are: 

GET IN 

GET ON 

GET SEEN 

GET BACK 

GET OVER IT 

50:50 shortlists for 
our senior roles 
over £70k 

Sponsorship of 
high performing 
female team 
members 

Platforming / 
showcasing our 
female talent 

Unconscious Bias 
training for all 

More proactive 
support / 
engagement for 
those going on and 
returning from 
Maternity and 
Adoption leave 

 
We’ve already seen good progress with an 5% increase in women holding Leadership roles 
over the last year. 

 

In addition, we are tackling some key pinch points.   

Our Partnership with Creative Equals is firmly focused on how we can improve Gender 
Diversity across Creative roles at Engine – particularly at Leadership level where historically 
there has been very low levels of female representation. We’ve completed an independent 
deep dive of all our data to review what we need to focus on and what specific actions we 
will take to create the greatest impact. 

Our Partnership with the Industry Diversity Task Force and particularly our participation in 
the first Industry ide Census gives us an excellent start point to understand the diversity of 
our current employee population and will give us more detailed insight to inform and shape 
Engines Diversity strategy for 2018 and beyond. 

7  

