Tower Hamlets Homes Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Tower Hamlets Homes (THH) has published this gender pay gap information in line with the 
reporting  requirements  set  out  in  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Specific  Duties  and  Public 
Authorities) Regulations 2017.  This is our report for the “snapshot” date 5 April 2017: 
 

  Overall, the Mean gender pay gap at THH is -14% 
  Overall, the Median gender pay gap at THH is -21.6% 

Men 
89.7% 
57.4% 
47.8% 
68.1% 

Women 
10.3% 
42.6% 
52.2% 
31.9% 

 
Pay quartiles by gender: 
 
Quartile 
Lower 
Lower-mid 
Upper-mid 
Upper 
 
Our workforce includes a caretaking function that is predominantly male.  This group of employees 
largely consist of staff whose salaries are within the lower quartile of our workforce.  This therefore 
skews  our  overall  average  pay  gap  figures,  and  the  gender  balances  within  each  quartile 
(particularly the lower quartile). 
 
To  avoid  this  skewing  effect,  we  have  presented  information  below  which  sets  out  data  for  all  our 
employees excluding the caretaking function.  
 

  Caretaking excluded, the Mean gender pay gap at THH is 3.9% 
  Caretaking excluded, the Median gender pay gap at THH is 7.4% 

Men 
35.5% 
44.7% 
56.6% 
73.7% 

Women 
64.5% 
55.3% 
43.4% 
26.3% 

 
Pay quartiles by gender (excluding caretaking function): 
 
Quartile 
Lower 
Lower-mid 
Upper-mid 
Upper 
 
Note that we do not operate a bonus pay scheme. 
 
The  figures  set  out  above  have  been  calculated  using  the  standard  methodologies  used  in  the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Gender pay gap is different to equal pay 
 
The gender pay gap looks at UK-based jobs at all levels, and shows the difference in the average 
pay  between  all  men  and  women  in  a  workforce.    This  is  not  the  same  as  equal  pay,  which  is 
concerned with addressing pay issues of men and women performing the same or similar work. 
 
What are the underlying causes of our gender pay gap? 
 
We  are  committed  to  promoting  equality  of  opportunity  for  all  and  to  nurturing  a  culture  which 
celebrates  diversity  and  difference.    As  an  employer,  we  want  to  ensure  our  workforce  is 
representative  of  the  community  it  serves  and  attract  and  retain  talented  employees  from  a  wide 
range  of  backgrounds  and  with  diverse  skills  and  experience.    As  a  result,  it  is  important  that  we 
understand our gender pay gap and take steps to reduce it. 
 

We have identified the following issues that are contributing to the overall gender pay gap: 

  We have a predominantly male workforce in the lower pay quartile (89.7%).  This is largely due 
to  the  caretaking  function  being  a  male-dominated  workforce,  as  excluding  this  group  the 
representation of men in this quartile falls to 35.5%.  We therefore need to identify strategies to 
promote this function as a viable career route for women. 

  We have over-representation of males in the upper pay quartile (68.1%).  This is unrelated to 
the caretaking function, as even excluding this group the representation of males remains high 
at  73.7%.    We  therefore  need  to  identify  strategies  to  encourage  the  career  development  of 
women  in  our  workforce  and  to  encourage  talented  women  from  outside  the  organisation  to 
apply for roles at the higher end of our pay spectrum. 

 
What are we doing to address the gender pay gap? 
 
Excluding the caretaking function, our gender pay gap compares favourably to national benchmarks 
(7.6%/8.9%  compared  to  17.4%/18.4%).    However,  our  data  suggests  that  we  have  a  particular 
issue with female representation in the upper pay quartile and so we are not complacent about our 
situation.    Additionally,  the  inverse  pay  gap  that  arises  when  the  caretaking function  is  included  in 
the  data  suggests  that  there  is  scope  for  progressive  activity  in  encouraging  female  employees  to 
enter our workforce in lower paid roles that have traditionally been male-dominated professions. 
 
We have already introduced some initiatives to support the reduction of our gender pay gap.  During 
2017, we introduced a women’s leadership forum, which has been set up to  discuss ideas around 
how we can attract, employ and retain more women in the senior level positions.  As a result of this, 
we  have  implemented  a  women’s  leadership  development  programme  within  the  organisation, 
helping  to  better  equip  female  employees  with  high  potential  for  career  opportunities  within  the 
organisation.  A follow-up programme to this is planned for 2018-19. 
 
Also during 2018-19, we will: 

  Review  our  parental  leave  and  pay  provision  (including  maternity,  paternity,  adoption  and 
shared parental leave/pay arrangements) to ensure that we are an accessible employer to all 
those who are becoming parents, enabling our employees to take childcare decisions with a 
gender-neutral pay impact; 

  Review  our  approach  to  working  hours,  working  location  and  leave  arrangements,  helping 
our employees maintain a positive work-life balance that meets the needs of our customers 
whilst  also  appreciating  the  diverse  needs  and  circumstances  of  our  employees  –  with 
particular attention given to how we facilitate part-time and flexible working patterns at higher 
pay levels; 

  Review our apprenticeship and graduate schemes with consideration to reducing the gender 
pay  gap,  including  the  job  advertisement  process  –  with  particular  consideration  given  to 
promoting routes for women into caretaking as a profession; 

  Ensure that all recruitment panels involve at least one female, sending the right message to 

our prospective new employees. 

 
We  know  that  no  one  action  will  eliminate  our  gender  pay  gap.    However,  the  publication  of  our 
gender  pay  comparisons  gives  us  an  opportunity  to  reinforce  our  existing  programme  of  work  and 
provide stimulus for fresh initiatives that allow all of our employees to maximise their ability to reach 
their  potential  and  deliver  a full  contribution to the  services  we  provide.    We know  that  we  will  not 
eliminate our pay gap overnight, but the actions set out above represent our commitment to working 
progressively and taking action to do this. 

