Oxford Archaeology Gender Pay Gap Report (April 5th 2017) 

From April 2017, all companies with 250 or more employees are now required to publish their gender pay 
gap. Employers must publish the gap in pay between men and women on both a mean basis (comparing 
average hourly salaries) and a median basis (pay per hour based on the man ‘in the middle’ of the 
distribution of pay, compared to the woman ‘in the middle’). See Table 1. In addition, employers are 
required to disclose the distribution of gender by pay quartile – in other words splitting the workforce into 
four groups based on their pay and showing the proportion of men and women in each group. See Table 2. 

This is OA’s report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

Table 1: Gender Pay Gap 

  
Gender Pay Gap 
Gender Bonus Gap 

Mean 
5.2% 
N/A 

Median 

0.0% 
N/A 

 

 

 

No member of staff received a bonus in the year 2016-17 

Table 2: Pay Quartile Data 

Pay Quartile  Male 

Female 

Upper 

Upper 
Middle 

Lower 
Middle 

Lower  
 

63.0% 

37.0% 

64.0% 

36.0% 

62.0% 

38.0% 

49.0% 

51.0% 
 

 

 

100.0%

80.0%

60.0%

40.0%

20.0%

0.0%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
37.0%

 

63.0%

 

Upper
 

 
 

Pay Quartiles

36.0%

64.0%

 

 

 

 

 

 

38.0%

62.0%

 

 

 

Upper Middle Lower Middle
 

 

 
Male

Female

 
 

 
 

 
 

49.0%

51.0%

Lower

 

 

 

 

 
 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

How does Oxford Archaeology's gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to report that Oxford 
Archaeology's gap compares very favourably with that of other organisations. 

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4% (and median 18.4%).  At 5.2% 
(and median of 0%), Oxford Archaeology's mean and median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly 
lower than that for the whole economy. However, there is no place for complacency.  Our target should be 
for a zero-mean gender pay gap rather than just ‘better than others’.  To reduce our gender pay gap we 
need to understand the causes. 

 

 

 

What are the underlying causes of Oxford Archaeology's gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

the same or broadly similar work; 

• 
•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 
•  work of equal value. 

Oxford Archaeology is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all 
employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. It has a clear policy of paying 
employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set 
out above). 

Further and more detailed analysis of OA’s figures do, however, indicate the potential causes of its pay gap 
(Table 3).  The quartile distributions show that in the lower quartile male and females are equally 
distributed.  In the quartiles above this the proportion of men to women become closer to 2:1. While OA is 
able to attract equal numbers of males and females for site works it see fewer women moving to higher 
grades.   The graph below of the mean and median gender pay gaps across the hierarchy (‘operatives’ 
being the lowest part of the hierarchy) also shows that it is the lower grades that have the least pay gap (c 
1%).   

Table 3: Gender Pay Gap - detail 

Detail Gender Pay Gap Analysis

Technicians

(Supervisory/Technical)

Lower-Middle Management

(Managers/Officers)

Senior Management

-10%

-8%

-6%

-4%

-2%

0%

2%

4%

6%

Mean Median

 

For differences in rates of pay, a positive % indicates that men in OA receive a higher  
rate than women; a negative % indicates that men in OA receive a lower rate than women in OA. 

OA is heavily dependent on ‘archaeological contracting’ (undertaking excavations in advance of 
development).  Many of these projects are based away from our home offices, with the requirement to 
stay-away during the week. In addition, the work is often on construction sites which can be challenging 
environments.  We suspect that both these factors influence decision making in our employees’ career 
progression with many of our female staff not opting for the career paths leading to the management of 
these projects.  Little comparative evidence of gender pay-gaps in the archaeology profession exist but a 
recent survey (Survey of Archaeological Specialists 2016-17, Kenneth Aitchison, 2017) suggests that females 
may well choose specialist roles rather than follow the fieldwork management career path; OA’s data 
support this analysis.   

OA is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently 
for the same or equivalent work. Rather OA’s gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and 
women work within the organisation, perhaps reflecting life-style choices, and the salaries that these roles 
attract. 

It is gratifying to see that when female staff do proceed into more senior management levels, the gender 
pay gap is in the women’s favour. 

 

What is Oxford Archaeology doing to address its gender pay gap? 

Our analysis also tells us that the under-representation of women in the middle to higher paid fieldwork 
management roles is one of the main drivers of our gender pay gap. There are no quick or easy ways to 
close the gap.  However, there are steps that can address these issues in the longer term: 

•  We need to enhance our evidence base to identify all barriers to gender equality and inform our 

priorities for action.  This will include monitoring the proportions of males and females in the career 
lifecycle at OA and conducting relevant surveys to understand the motivations behind career 
choices etc. 

•  We need to review OA’s flexible working policy to see how it can be enhanced to support all 

employees in all job roles, and how challenging aspects of site work can be mitigated. 

•  We need to review our support for parents prior to, during and on return from maternity and other 

parental leave, and this to be backed up by training for line managers and senior managers.  

None of these initiatives will, of themselves, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several years 
before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Oxford Archaeology is committed to annual 
reporting on its gender pay, and the progress that it is making to reduce the gap. 

I, Gill Hey, CEO, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

 

 

Date 

31st January 2018 

