B (Lower middle quartile)

C (Upper middle quartile)

D (Upper quartile)

56.63%

39.16%

60.84%

16.77%

83.23%

 

 F   

 M   

Gender distribution across City FM (Distribution) is represented in four equally sized hourly pay quartiles, shown above.  Proportionally more men 
hold managerial, engineering and technical positions, which are higher paid.

% of male population in each quartile

21.60%

22.07%

32.63%

23.71%

The  charts  to  the  left  show  how  each  gender’s  population  is 
represented across the four quartiles.
Males and females are fairly evenly distributed across the three 
lower/middle quartiles.  Over 30% of men are in the upper quartile 
and approximately 12% of women are in this quartile.
 A (Lower quartile)
 B (Lower middle quartile)

 C (Upper middle quartile)
 D (Upper quartile)

Pay quartiles
A (Lower quartile)

Gender Pay Gap Report 
City Facilities Management (Distribution) Ltd
About us
City  Facilities  Management  (Distribution)  Ltd  provides  dedicated 
facilities  management  and  cleaning  services.  The  business  is  part  of 
City, one of the world’s largest, privately owned facilities management 
companies, with over 12,000 colleagues across five continents. 
Our  services  are  provided  through  City’s  unique  partnership  model, 
operating as one team to align our strategy, management, culture and 
values; providing excellence in controlled outsourcing for our partner.
We  are  proud  of  our  culture  and  our  commitment  to  our  people. 
Succession  planning  and  colleague  development  is  a  key  part  of 
our  people  strategy  and  we  firmly  believe  in  providing  progression 
opportunities and helping each colleague reach their full potential.
The  following  report  has  been  produced  in  accordance  with  the 
Government’s  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap 
Information) 
Regulations 2017 with a snapshot date of 5 April 2017.
Workforce demographics and  
gender pay gap
Female/Male colleagues

% of female population in each quartile

55.09%

27.08%

31.25%

44.91%

43.37%

11.67%

30.00%

The  chart  to  the 
left  shows  that 
women currently represent 37% of the 
workforce.
There  is  an  equal  representation  of 
males  and  females  in  cleaning  roles.  
All  Technician  positions  are  currently 
filled  by  males  and  there  is  a  higher 
representation  of  males  in  managerial 
roles.
Males 
represented on our Group Board.

are  equally 

females 

and 

37.63%

62.37%

    

 F    

 M

City FM (Distribution) Ltd Mean Gender Pay Gap 
14.61%
City FM (Distribution) Ltd Median Gender Pay Gap  5.74%
UK’s National Mean Gender Pay Gap 
18.1%
Source: Office of National Statistics 2016

The  tables  above  show  the  gender  pay  gap  at  City  FM  (Distribution) 
Ltd.  This is a snapshot of the difference between the average hourly 
pay levels of all women compared to all men, irrespective of their role 
or level in the organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s average 
pay.  
The hourly pay figure used to calculate the difference includes all items 
specified  in  the  regulations,  such  as  location  allowances  and  shift 
payments.
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly 
rate of pay for women, compared to the average hourly rate of pay for 
men, within a company.
The median represents the middle point of a population. If you lined up 
all of the women at a company and all of the men, the median pay gap 
is the difference between the hourly rate of pay for the middle woman 
compared to the hourly rate of pay for the middle man.
All City FM (Distribution) Ltd colleagues working in the same role and 
location, regardless of gender, are paid the same hourly rate of pay. 

Gender bonus gap
The regulations define bonus as including commission, recognition and length of service awards in the form of cash and vouchers.  The proportion 
of each gender in receipt of a bonus and the gender bonus gap at City FM (Distribution) Ltd is outlined below:

Mean Gender Bonus Gap  79.94%
Median Gender Bonus Gap  0.0%

(F) 24.62% (M) 33.18%

Only  managerial,  engineering  and  business  development  roles  are 
eligible  for  bonus  and/or  commission  within  City  FM  (Distribution)  Ltd 
therefore a higher proportion of males received a bonus.  
The definition of bonus in the regulations includes recognition awards 
and long service awards - all colleagues, regardless of role, are eligible 
to receive these awards and this explains the 0.0% median bonus gap.  
The same analysis on annual performance bonus (excluding recognition 
awards & length of service awards) shows a mean gender bonus gap of 
42.31% and a median gender bonus gap of -11.61%.  

Bridging the gap
As a facilities management company, City FM (Distribution) Ltd faces the same challenges as other employers in this sector in recruiting women into roles. In 
the UK, only 4% of the industry’s workforce is made up of women* however we are committed to increasing the number of females who apply for roles and 
progress their career within City FM (Distribution) Ltd. 
We have taken steps to improve our approach and working conditions for women including the enhancement of maternity pay, promoting flexible working, 
a childcare voucher scheme and creating ‘bridging roles’ to facilitate progression from roles typically filled by female colleagues into technical roles.
Apprenticeships are a crucial element of our resourcing and talent development strategy. We promote our apprenticeship programme nationally, feature 
female apprentices on our marketing materials and facilitate their attendance at the Scottish Apprenticeship Show to encourage female attendees to 
engage with us.  We also have a ’Women in IT’ apprenticeship strategy and actively look for opportunities to talk to and encourage young people, including 
females, into starting their career in IT through our apprenticeship programmes.  
We aim to improve our gender pay gap over the next 12 months by setting out a strategy which includes attracting more female apprentices to technical 
roles and encouraging females to participate in our Pathways management and leadership programme. This is open to all colleagues and in 2017, 50% of 
our participants were female.
For further information on City FM (Distribution) Ltd visit www.cityfm.com  | (*Source: Women and the Economy, House of Commons Briefing Paper, March 2017)

