 
 
 
 
 
 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Northumberland County Council Workforce 

Name of Group: 
Date of Analysis:  As at 31 March 2017 
Author(s): 

Estelle White, Workforce Planning & Information 
Manager 
Craig Smith, Workforce Analyst 
Kelly Angus 
Executive Director of HR/OD &  
Deputy Chief Executive 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Approved by: 

 

 

 

Introduction
Scope of the report

Index
 
1.
2.
3.      Current Position
3a) Gender Profile
3b) Gender Pay Gap in Hourly rate of pay
Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
Proportion of Males/Females in Pay Quartiles 

Actions to remove the Gender Pay Gap 

4.
5.
6.  Conclusion
7.
8.  Monitoring Arrangements
9.  Publication Arrangements
 
 
 

 

   Page 

3 
3 
3 
3 
4 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
7 

2 

 

1. Introduction  
All public sector employers are required to publish information about gender pay gaps by 31 
March 2018. The information is based on a snapshot date of 31 March 2017. The gender 
pay gap shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women in the 
workforce. If a workforce has a high pay gap this can indicate issues within the organisation 
and the calculations can help identify the issues. 
Gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay which is defined as pay differences between 
gender when carrying out the same roles/jobs of equal value. 
Northumberland County Council’s Pay Policy is based on the consistency, fairness and 
transparency to ensure reward is given fairly irrespective of gender and this can be viewed 
at ​www.northumberland.gov.uk​. 
This report complies with the requirements of government legislation in regards to content 
and publication. It contains data analysis and sets out the relevant applicable action(s) 
required by Northumberland County Council ("NCC") to close the gender pay gap in the 
organisation. 
 
2. Scope of the report 
Included in the data used for this report are all employees of Northumberland County 
Council who were in employment on 31 March 2017. This includes all areas of NCC  - 
Finance, Fire & Rescue, HR/OD & People , Place, Adults and Childrens Directorates but 
does not include NCC School employees as each school is required to provide their own 
information as their own organisation.  
 
3. Current position 
3a) Gender Profile  
The information is based on a snapshot date of 31 March 2017. On this date the workforce 
consisted of 55.51% female employees and 44.49% male employees within NCC. 

 

3 

 

3b) Gender Pay Gap in Hourly Pay  
Mean  
The mean gender pay gap in hourly pay is the difference between the male mean hourly pay 
and that of females mean hourly pay. The mean is average calculated by dividing the the 
sum of all rates of pay (male or female) and dividing by the number of employees.The mean 
gender pay gap in hourly pay as a percentage for NCC is ​2.17​%. 

 

 
Within NCC the average difference in hourly pay from a male to a female is 2.17% (females 
earn 2.17% less)  
 
Median  
The median gender pay gap in hourly pay is the difference between the male median hourly 
pay female median hourly pay. The median is the midpoint of a range of values therefore the 
mid hourly pay point for both males and females within the organisation. 

 
Within NCC the gender gap  in median  hourly pay between male and female employees is 
0.51% ( females earn 0.51% less)  

 

4 

 

The gender pay gap in NCC is substantially below ​the provisional ONS figure for the 2017 
national average median pay gap for ​all​ employees, which is 18.4 in favour of male employees​. 
The gender pay gap in this organisation is due to the males employed having jobs at higher 
grades that relates to the skills and knowledge required for the role  compared to females, 
particularly within middle management roles (Pay bands 8-10), this being is the only work 
quartile in which males outweigh females. NCC uses local pay bands with specific pay 
ranges. Bands vary by levels of responsibility and each band has a set range of increments. 
Employees move through the increments through time regardless of gender. For this report 
hourly rate is calculated from base pay and allowances. 
 
4. Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
Following a job evaluation and single status exercise in 2011, the pay framework for NCC 
does not allow the provision of bonus payments to employees. Therefore there is no data in 
relation to this as part of the report. 
 
5. Proportion of Males and Females in each Pay Quartile 
The gender pay gap regulations require reporting for the organisation to be split into 4 
quartiles dependent on earnings and gender. For NCC, this reflected a split in pay bands as 
follows :  
 
Upper ​                     Senior manager grades + Pay Bands 7-13 
Upper Middle​          Pay Bands 5,6,7 
Lower Middle​          Pay Bands 4,5 
Lower ​                     Pay Bands 2 ,3,4 
 

 

5 

 

The percentage of female employees are similar in the upper and lower quartiles (about 
56%). In the middle quartiles the results are mixed. Upper Middle is the only quartile where 
there is a higher percentage (53.66%) of males. The majority of first line manager roles in 
areas that in the past have been male dominated work areas such as Planning, Highways 
Maintenance and Neighbourhood services roles are part of this quartile. In the lower middle 
quartile just under two thirds (64.21%) of employees are female. The higher proportion of 
females to males in most quartiles of the organisation will be a consequence of two factors: 
females occupying more junior roles and the senior management within NCC, defined as the 
organisations leadership team, has a high percentage of female employees.  The Upper 
Middle quartile result is explained by roles within service areas at Pay Bands 5,6 and 7 being 
predominantly male. 
 
6. Conclusion 
The Gender Pay Gap within Northumberland County Council is lower than other regional 
local authorities compared through published data  on the government website, with both 
hourly rate percentages at mean and median at less than 2.2 %. It is also considerably lower 
than the national average figure for all employees. Although this is a positive situation, NCC 
is committed to reducing and hopefully eliminating the gender pay gap in the future, as set 
out below. 
 
7. Actions to remove the Gender Pay Gap - what is next for NCC? 
NCC is committed to reducing its gender pay gap, and supporting the development of all of 
our employees through a range of actions.  The very Senior Leadership team composition 
has changed recently and comprises 7 roles, of which 5 are occupied by females. The next 
stage of development will be to increase females in senior manager service roles to enable a 
more balanced representation in this area ( Upper Middle Quadrant) .  
Planned actions in support of this objective, and in line with NCC's Public Sector Equality 
Duty, are : -  
Future Talent  

● Support and develop the careers of females within the organisation and put 

strategies in place to ensure females are not disadvantaged in comparison to male 
employees. In  particular in succession planning by working with service leads to 
remove unconscious bias when forward planning and assess competencies for roles. 

● Review Pay Policy annually, undertake gender pay analysis to ensure gender pay 

differences are addressed. 

Supporting Working Families 

● Continue to support return to work following maternity or adoption leave and also 

support whilst on leave through Keep in Touch days to continue communication as 
an employer. NCC hold a number of family friendly policies such as Shared Parental 
leave, flexible working policy, leave of absence and flexitime scheme to support 
return to work where possible and sustain employment.  We aim to encourage an 
open attitude to provide flexible solutions to fit with personal circumstances. 

6 

 

Inclusion 

● Review of recruitment practices and procedures including identifying and removing 
any barriers for entry such as anonymised applications to remove unconscious bias 
● Dignity at work policy has been revised to ensure bullying or harassment has a clear 

line of reporting 

● Employee engagement is a part of the HR & OD strategy to increase engagement in 
all areas and in particular with those with protected characteristics including gender. 

 
8. Monitoring Arrangements 
Actions will be monitored by the Council’s Workforce Committee on a quarterly basis and the 
accountable officer with the responsibility for this workstream is the Executive Director of 
HR/OD and Deputy Chief Executive.   
 
9. Publication Arrangements 
This report will be published annually by the Council and will be placed on the Council’s 
website and be made available internally to staff throughout the organisation. The report will 
also be published onto the government website annually to meet legislative requirements. 

7 

