JOCKEY CLUB RACECOURSES 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

At Jockey Club Racecourses, we are confident there is pay parity
between females and males for equivalent roles.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Jockey Club Racecourses is dedicated to being an equal 
opportunities employer. We are committed to driving 
diversity, equality and inclusion not only 

within the company, but also within the industry. We are 
proud to be a founder member of the Diversity in 
Racing Steering Group (DiRSG), the first group of its kind 
in British Racing.

HOURLY PAY GAP
As per the 5th April 2017 snapshot date, the
accompanying table demonstrates the median and mean 
hourly gender pay gap for employees of Jockey Club 
Racecourses Ltd.

Our analysis of the Company’s hourly gender pay gap 
shows that there is a mean 3% difference between males 
and females, while conversely at the median point 
females are paid 23% more than our male employees.

The slight difference in mean hourly pay is accounted for 
by there being more males than females at this current 
time in the most senior executive management positions 
at Jockey Club Racecourses, such as the Chief Executive.

This median result is driven largely by the many 
women being employed in higher paid positions in 
functions including Marketing, Finance, Sales, Human 
Resources, Operations, Events and racecourse general 

Hourly pay difference between men and women

MEAN
(AVERAGE)3%

MEDIAN
(MIDDLE)
-23%

management, and significantly more men being 
employed in manual, non-office based roles within the 
business, which fall within the lower quartile salary 
ranges.

We vigorously scrutinise annual salary and performance 
bonus reviews, and are committed to addressing any 
gaps, ensuring our practices and policies are fair to all 
employees. Hence we are confident that there is pay
parity between females and males at Jockey Club
Racecourses for equivalent roles.

BONUS PAY GAP

FEMALES

MALES

Proportion of Employees Receiving a Bonus

70.9%

63.5%

More women than men receive a bonus at Jockey Club 
Racecourses based on the nature of their roles. We 
offer employees the opportunity to salary sacrifice their  
performance bonus and employees who opt to do this 
are not recorded in the bonus calculations, as per the 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting Regulations. In addition to 
this, we are required to include individuals who work 
on a casual worker agreement within our calculations. 
Individuals who work on a casual  worker agreement to 
support our many racedays do not receive a bonus.

Jockey Club Racecourses is committed to ensuring both 
female and male employees have an equal opportunity 
to participate in and earn a bonus, and are therefore 
rewarded for their contribution to our annual financial 
performance. Using the stipulated 12 month reference 
point, the above table illustrates the median and mean 
bonus gender pay gap for employees of Jockey Club 
Racecourses.

Bonus pay difference between men and women

MEAN
(AVERAGE)
13.1%

MEDIAN
(MIDDLE)
-182%

Our mean bonus gap figure is predominantly driven by 
the majority of part-time opportunities within our busi-
ness being undertaken by women – something we are 
proud of in-line with being open to more flexible working 
arrangements – coupled with the aforementioned point 
that a higher number of males currently occupy the 
most senior roles. However, our median bonus pay gap 
evidences that the median bonus figure paid to female 
employees is 182% higher than our male employees.

PAY QUARTILES

28.7% 71.3%

LOWER

32% 68%
LOWER MIDDLE

57.3% 42.7%
UPPER MIDDLE

44.7% 55.3%

HIGHER

These graphs demonstrate, based on gender, how our employees are distributed across four equal pay quartiles.

Disclaimer: We confirm the data reported here is accurate.

PAUL FISHER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, JOCKEY CLUB RACECOURSES

