Luxottica Retail UK Ltd  
 
2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 
 

Introduction 
For the first time, this year all large UK companies 
employing 250 people or more  are required to report 
on their gender pay gap. This report details our data on 
gender pay for the UK only.  
 
As a global leader in the design, manufacture and 
distribution of prescription frames  and sunglasses 
Luxottica Retail UK Ltd believe it is important for 
companies to be open with there gender pay and to 
date, has taken several steps to promote gender 
diversity in all areas of its workforce and help bridge 
the gender pay gap in the UK which can be seen in our 
results.  
 
Luxottica Retail UK Ltd is committed to the principle of 
equal opportunities and equal treatment for all 
employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, 
age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, 
sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability.  
It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for 
the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or 
any other characteristic set out above).   
 
As such, we carry out pay and benefits audits at 
regular intervals; provide regular equal pay training for 
all managers and other staff members who are 
involved in pay reviews; and evaluates job roles and 
pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 
 
Our Data 
The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay 
gap, and we are pleased to be able to say that 
 
 
 

 
 

 
Luxottica Retail UK Ltd gap compares favourably with that 
of other organisations, including those within our industry. 
 
This report is for the snapshot date of 5th April 2017. 
The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy 
(according to the October 2017 Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 
(ASHE) figures) is 17.4%, while in the retail and wholesale 
sector it is 18.9%. At 9.16%, Luxottica’s mean gender pay 
gap is, therefore, significantly lower than both that for the 
whole economy and that for our sector. 
 
The median gender pay gap for the whole economy 
(according to the October 2017 ONS ASHE figures) is 
18.4%, while in the retail and wholesale sector it is 17.9%. 
At 4.86%, Luxottica’s median gender pay gap is, therefore, 
significantly lower than both that for the whole economy 
and that for our sector. 
 
We can confirm that men and women are paid equally for 
doing equivalent jobs with equivalent experience. 
Our gender bonus gap is primarily driven by having  
more men than women on our leadership team,  
and these employees attract a higher level of bonus.  
 
While Luxottica Retail UK Ltd’s gender pay gap compares 
favourably with that of organisations both across the whole 
UK economy and within the retail and wholesale sector, 
this is not a subject about which we Luxottica are 
complacent, and it is committed to doing everything that it 
can to reduce the gap. 
 
. 
 
 
 
 

 
LUXOTTICA RETAIL UK LTD  
 
2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
 
 
However, Luxottica Retail UK Ltd also recognises that 
its scope to act is limited in some areas - it has, for 
example, no direct control over the subjects that 
individuals choose to study or the career choices that 
they make. 
 
Luxottica Retail UK Ltd  is committed to reporting on an 
annual basis on what we are doing to reduce the 
gender pay gap and the progress that it is making  
 
 

Luxottica Retail UK Ltd - Gender Pay Gap Report 

2 

PAY GAP AND BONUS 

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MALE AND FEMALE UK 

EMPLOYEES 

Mean 

Median 

Hourly rate of pay 

9.16% 

4.86% 

Bonus pay 

28.78% 

21.54% 

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE  
UK EMPLOYEES RECEIVING BONUS PAY 

PROPORTION OF MALE AND FEMALE  
UK EMPLOYEES RECEIVING BONUS PAY 

Upper Quartile 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower Quartile 

Luxottica Retail UK Ltd - Gender Pay Gap Report 
 

3 

