Gender pay gap 
report.

2

Gender pay gap report

Gender pay gap report.

At Linde, our ambition is to become the leading global gases and engineering company, 
admired for our people who provide innovative solutions that make a difference to the 
world. We are driven by a core belief that successful businesses are those that harness the 
benefits of a truly diverse and inclusive culture.

Under the UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulations, 
companies must report their gender pay gap for all legal entities in 
Great Britain with more than 250 employees. 

We welcome the UK Government’s requirement for large companies 
to be more transparent on gender pay. In this report, we provide the 
gender pay gap information for our UK businesses, identify the reasons 
for the pay gap and provide an outline of our plan for closing this 
gap. We are clear about our ambition to go further and will seek out 
opportunities which encourage diversity and a better gender balance, 
ensuring BOC in the UK (A Member of The Linde Group) is a company 
that both women and men will want to work for.

The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay. Equal pay provides 
for male and female employees receiving the same pay for carrying out 
the same or equivalent work. The gender pay gap is a simple average 
figure for all employees as defined by the UK Government’s gender pay 
gap regulations, irrespective of the job that they do.

Calculating our numbers

On the snap shot date of 5 April 2017, BOC Limited employed 2,673 
people in Great Britain who were within scope of the regulations. Our 
figures exclude our employees in Northern Ireland, as Northern Ireland 
is not covered by these reporting regulations.

In this report, we share the median and mean (average) pay gaps 
between male and female employees’ hourly pay and bonuses.

Understanding our pay gap calculations

How we calculate the median difference

Lowest hourly pay

Median hourly pay

Highest hourly pay

£

£

£

£

£

The difference =  Median hourly pay gap

How we calculate the mean difference

£

+

£

+

£

÷

Number 
of male 
employees

=

Mean 
male 
average 

pay

The  

difference = 

Mean 
hourly 
pay gap

£

+

£

+

£

÷

Number 
of female 
employees

=

Mean 
female 
average 

pay

Gender pay gap report

3

Our analysis shows that the reported gap in pay is primarily a product 
of gender mix and length of service, rather than the result of pay 
differentials between female and male employees of a similar pay 
grade. Our ambition is to close the gap, but we acknowledge that this 
is likely to take some time. We are committed to attracting, engaging 
and developing women, as well as other under-represented groups, 
and we plan to establish a working group approach to further increase 
our focus on diversity.

Statutory disclosures: BOC Limited UK (Part of The Linde 
Group)

% male/female employees 80%/20% 
Median gender pay gap 12% 
Mean gender pay gap 7% 
Median bonus pay gap 14% 
Mean bonus pay gap -17% 
% males/females receiving a bonus payment 72%/68% 
Upper quartile* (male/female %) 82%/18% 
Upper middle quartile (male/female %) 87%/13% 
Lower middle quartile (male/female %) 88%/12% 
Lower quartile (male/female %) 63%/37%
*Quartiles are based on hourly pay rates

 
Declaration

We confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of 5 April 
2017. 
 
 

Sally Williams 
Head of Finance 

Vic Hart 
Head of HR

Results

The median pay for employees across our business was 12% higher for 
male employees. The mean pay was 7% higher for male employees. 
The gap was primarily driven by the large number of roles held by male 
employees, which is consistent with other similar companies in our 
industry.

Our median bonus was 14% higher for male employees which reflected 
the higher proportion of males in roles that attract larger bonuses. 
The mean bonus was 17% higher for female employees, however our 
analysis shows that this figure is influenced by outliers in the data 
which had a disproportionate impact on the calculation.

Median pay gap 
12% 

Mean pay gap 
7% 

Median bonus pay gap 
14% 

Mean bonus pay gap 
-17% 

% receiving a bonus payment 
 
 

72% 

68%

 
Closing the gap

One of the challenges in our business is attracting female employees 
into a traditionally male-dominated industry. Our company is 
proactively tackling this challenge in several ways:
 → BOC actively supports and participates in events such as the 

International Women in Engineering Day

 → A number of our employees are involved in complementary 
initiatives that include Student Liaison and STEM ambassador 
roles to encourage young people to consider careers in Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics

 → We actively encourage female graduate engineers into our 
organisation through our graduate recruitment and training 
programme.

BOC – turning ideas into solutions

BOC is a member of The Linde Group, the leading global gases and engineering company. BOC is the UK’s largest provider of 
industrial, specialist and medical gases, as well as related products and services. As a leader in the application of technology, 
we are constantly looking for new ways to provide our customers with high quality products and innovative solutions.

At BOC we help our customers to create added value, clearly discernible competitive advantage and hence greater profitability. 
To achieve this we have a comprehensive range of products, services and technical support, which can be customised to meet 
the individual requirements of our clients.

To keep ahead of the competition in today’s market, you need a partner for whom quality, service, process and productivity 
optimisation are an integral part of customer support. We are there for you and with you, helping to build your success.

BOC’s reputation has been forged through partnerships – with customers, with relevant regulatory authorities and with key 
suppliers. In this way, we deliver comprehensive and consistent benefits to you.

BOC – world-leading knowledge and resources adapted to local requirements.

BOC Limited
The Priestley Centre, 10 Priestley Road, The Surrey Research Park, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XY, United Kingdom 
Tel +44 1483 579 857, Fax +44 1483 505 211, www.BOConline.co.uk
BOC Limited registered office, The Priestley Centre, 10 Priestley Road, The Surrey Research Park, Guildford, GU2 7XY, England. Number 337663 – English Register. 
Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, register number 715528. 
BOC and Linde are trading names used by companies within The Linde Group. The BOC and Linde logos as well as the BOC and Linde words are trademarks of The Linde Group. Copyright © 2018. BOC Ltd.

8
1
3
0
/
S
K
U
/
5
6
0
8
0
6
/
C
O
B

