 

 
 
 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 
 
 
Cheltenham Ladies’ College is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. This is the 
report for the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.  
  

-  The mean gender pay gap for Cheltenham Ladies’ College is 3.9%. 

 

-  The median gender pay gap for Cheltenham Ladies’ College is 2.7%. 

 
Cheltenham Ladies’ College does not have a bonus scheme, therefore, there is no comparative data to 
report. 
 
PAY QUARTILES BY GENDER 

Quarter 

Males 

Females 

1st  

2nd 

3rd 

4th 

25% 

20% 

23% 

21% 

75% 

80% 

77% 

79% 

 

  

 

 

 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the agreed methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
The gender split across our workforce is 79% female to 21% male. This split is broadly represented across 
the quartiles. In the top quartile where the majority of the cohort is Teaching and Management staff, there 
is a slightly higher proportion of male employees.  This small difference accounts for the observed gender 
pay gap. 
 
Cheltenham Ladies’ College promotes diversity amongst its employees, recognising the particular 
contributions to the achievement of our aims and objectives that can be made by individuals from a wide 
range of experiences and backgrounds. CLC is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal 
treatment for all employees, regardless of gender, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. We have a clear policy of paying 
employees equally for the same or equivalent work either through the academic pay structures or support 
staff pay structures, regardless of their gender (or any of the above characteristics). Progression at College 
is determined by personal merit and selection processes are transparent and fair.  
 
 

1 
 

 
I, Chloe Grobler, Human Resources Director, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 
 

 

Signed: 
 
Date: 28/03/2018 
 
 
Counter signatory, Valerie Udale, Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 
 

  

Signed: 
 
 
Date: 28/03/2018 

2 
 

