 

 

Bank of Cyprus UK: Gender pay gap report 2017 

The  UK  Government  Equalities  Office  requires  all  employers  with  250  or  more  UK 

employees to disclose annually information on their gender pay gap.  

For this first report, the legislation requires firms to  base their report on pay data as at 

the 5 April 2017, and to publish their report by 4 April 2018.  

For gender pay gap reporting purposes, pay is based on the hourly rate of pay for each 

employee, reflecting base salary and certain allowances. The hourly rate is based on our 

standard  35  hour  working  week  and  does  not  take  account  of  any  overtime  or  hours 

worked  in  excess  of  the  standard  week  (either  unpaid  or  paid).  There  is  also  a 

requirement  to  separately  report  the  gender  bonus  gap,  reflecting  total  variable  pay 

received over the previous 12 months.  

Our data as at 5 April 2017 is as follows: 

Total Employees 

 144 
 113 

Total     257  

 

The amount by which the male median hourly rate 

exceeds the female (as a % of the male) is 

    

 

The amount by which the male mean (average) hourly  

rate exceeds the female (as a % of the male) is 

 

34.4%   

39.8%   

 

 

 

 

There  were  no  variable  payments  made  by  Bank  of  Cyprus  UK  during  the  reporting 

period therefore there is no data to report. 

 

 

 

Commentary 

 

Bank  of  Cyprus  UK  is  committed  to  the  principle  of  equal  opportunities  and  equal 

treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage or 

civil partnership, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability.   

 

We  have  a  clear  policy  of  paying  our  employees  fairly  for  the  same  or  equivalent  work 

regardless of their gender or any other characteristic. 

 

Therefore, in addition to ‘reporting the numbers’, we have sought to understand the root 

cause of our gender pay gap. Having done this, we are confident that our pay gap is not 

a pay issue, but is driven by the structure of our workforce.  

 

To illustrate this, the  charts below show the proportion of male to female employees in 

each  quartile  pay  band,  along  with  the  amount  by  which  the  male  mean  (average) 

hourly rate of pay exceeds the female (as a % of the male): 

 

Quartile 1 

(Lower)

24.6

%

75.4

%

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

53.1  
%   

46.9

%

32.8

%

67.2

%

Quartile 4 

(Upper)

20.3

%

79.7

%

    -0.8% pay gap 

      2.9% pay gap        -2.5% pay gap        21.9% pay gap   

 

 

 

          

 

The charts show that there is very little variance in pay between males and females until 

we reach the upper pay quartile. The reasons for this are: 

 

 

  There  is  a  gender  imbalance  amongst  colleagues  at  more  junior  levels.  75%  of 

our  colleagues at the lower pay quartile are  women, whereas this is reversed at 

the upper pay quartile  

  We have a higher number of men (79%) than women (21%) in our Executive and 

wider management team 

The  lower  representation  of  women  at  senior  levels  within  the  business  (which  is  an 

issue across the financial services sector) coupled with the higher representation at more 

junior levels, is the primary contributor to our gender pay gap.  

 

We believe that continuing to address the gender imbalance amongst our executive and 

wider manager population will be good for our business, and is an important strategy in 

addressing our gender pay gap. 

 

We  are  taking  a  number  of  actions  in  this  respect,  whilst  also  ensuring  we  offer  an 

inclusive  and  flexible  working  environment  that  is  attractive  to  all  employees.  These 

include: 

 

  Monitoring  the  application  and  equity  of  pay  awards  for  male  and  female 

employees as part of our annual pay review process 

  Actively  seeking  gender  balance  in  the  candidate  lists  provided  for  Senior 

Executive roles by our recruitment agency partners  

  Delivering Diversity, Equality & Discrimination training for all employees 

  Ensuring  all  employees  have  a  Personal  Development  Plan  and  have  equal 

opportunity for progression and promotion within the business 

  Through  our  talent  management  process,  improving  the  identification  and 

development of female talent within the business 

  Encouraging job sharing and flexible working to improve access to work 

  Promoting agile working within the business, including improving our  technology 

to  ensure  more  employees  have  the  opportunity  to  work  remotely,  either  from 

home or from any of our other offices 

  Promoting our Paternity Leave and Shared Parental Leave policies  

 

I confirm the data reported is accurate. 

 

Helen Challis 

Chief People Officer 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank of Cyprus UK Limited  

Registered office 27-31 Charlotte Street, London W1T 1RP 

