Gender Pay Gap  
Report 2017

Introduction

On behalf of pladis 1 we are pleased to publish 
our UK gender pay gap (GPG) report for April 2017.

offices come together to raise money to bring 
happiness to disadvantaged children.

We have around 4,700 colleagues in the UK 
- nearly 4,000 are part of our Supply Chain 
working to bake our much-loved biscuits and 
snacks in our factories up and down the UK. 
Almost one in four have been with us for 20 
years, and one in eight for 30 years. 

Diversity and inclusion is central to everything 
we do and is reflected across our business. Our 
biscuits and snacks cater for our wide range of 
consumers who enjoy them day in, day out – 
from a classic Jacob’s Cream Cracker to our new 
McVitie’s Nibbles.  We recognise that we need 
diversity in our teams too – we couldn’t create 
our much-loved products without our end to end 
team, from our pladisians developing ideas in our 
Innovation Centre to the bakers at the heart of 
our business.

When it comes to diversity in the UK, we’re 
proud of some key success stories. Of our seven 
factories, three have female general managers 
leading their teams, and when we look at our 
graduate cohort for 2017, over 50% are female. 
We’re also proud signatories of the MIND Time to 
Change Pledge and have committed to support 
the positive mental health of our people.

Despite these successes - and the fact that our 
gender pay gap is significantly below the overall 
UK pay gap published by the Office of National 
Statistics – we recognise that there is still more 
to do to improve female representation at 
senior levels within both our Supply Chain and 
our Corporate Functions. We are determined to 
address this challenge, and we are proud to use 
this report to share our plans.

Our factories are embedded parts of local 
communities, who we’re proud to support. For 
example, our teams help sixth formers prepare 
for job interviews, and our annual ‘Make Happy 
Be Happy’ Day sees each of our factories and 

We are fully committed to making pladis 
the employer of choice for colleagues of all 
backgrounds and are excited by the journey  
we are on. We confirm the data in this report  
to be accurate.

 

 

 

About pladis: 

Formed in 2016, pladis is  
one of the world’s leading  

snacking companies and home  

to loved brands including  
McVitie’s, Ulker and Godiva.   
We’re proud stewards of over  
300 years of family baking  
and confectionery experience,  
and we are passionate about  
collaboration, creation, and  

ultimately fulfilling our  

promise; ‘to bring happiness  

to the world with  

every bite’.

Nick Bunker
Managing Director, 
pladis UK & Ireland

Erica Coletta
Chief Human Resources Officer, 
pladis

1The trading name of United Biscuits UK Ltd

02

Difference between 
equal pay and  
gender pay gap

The gender pay gap is the measure of the 
difference between men’s and women’s hourly 
earnings in a company. This includes base pay, 
allowances and any other bonus and incentive 
pay paid in April 2017. The gender bonus gap is the 
difference in all incentive pay received by men 
and women in the 12 months up to April 2017. This 
includes all bonuses, long-term incentives and 
sales commission payments.  

The gender pay gap in the UK should not be 
confused with ideas of ‘equal pay’ and ‘pay 
equity’. These are legal requirements to pay men 
and women the same for performing the same 
work, and have been in place in the UK for over 
40 years. This new Gender Pay Gap disclosure is 
about bringing attention to issues that drive the 
gap, namely fewer women in senior positions,  
and men predominating in specialist positions 
that can carry a premium in the market.

How results are calculated 

Mean and median compared

MEAN: The mean is calculated by adding up the total pay of employees 
and dividing by the employees in the list. This calculation is completed 
separately for men and women and the totals are compared. While 
useful, this ‘true average’ is easily skewed by a small number of high  
or low earners. Reporting both mean and median figures provides a 
more rounded understanding of the GPG.

MEDIAN: The median is the number which is in the middle of a 
ranking of pay from lowest to highest. This is broadly understood by 
statisticians to be the best view of ‘typical’ pay, as extremes of low  
and high pay do not affect the median.

What are gender pay gap quartile figures?
Gender pay gap quartile figures calculate an organisation’s figures to 
show the proportion of male and female employees in four pay bands.

To do this, employees are ranked from highest to lowest paid, then 
divided into four equal parts (‘quartiles’) to work out the percentage of 
men and women in each of the four parts.

03

Our results

UK overall pay 
gap (ONS, 2017)

18.4%

Mean hourly  
pay gap

9.6%

Median hourly 
pay gap

9.3%

Mean bonus 
pay gap

8.7%

Median bonus 
pay gap

27.8%

Men receiving 
a bonus

59.9%

Women receiving  
a bonus

64.0%

Pay Quartiles

MALE
65.1%

FEMALE
34.9%

MALE
71.8%

FEMALE
28.2%

MALE
70.8%

FEMALE
29.2%

MALE
71.3%

FEMALE
28.7%

MALE
48.2%

FEMALE
51.8%

04

Understanding our results
The mean hourly pay gap at pladis is 9.6%;  
the overall UK pay gap in 2017 was 18.4%  
(per the Office of National Statistics). The key 
reason for our gender pay gap is that female 
colleagues are relatively under-represented at 
senior levels in both our Supply Chain and our 
Corporate Functions. At the same time, women 
are relatively over-represented at more junior 
levels. In short: men are more likely to hold 
more senior roles, and this results in a gender 
pay gap. We are comfortable that we do not 
have an issue with equal pay and that our pay 
programmes support equal pay practices. 

Our Supply Chain
3 in 10 of our colleagues in our Supply Chain 
are female overall. However, women are 
significantly under-represented in our most 
technical roles, which command a pay premium 
owing to the complex skill-sets required.

Our engineering function is a clear example 
of such an issue. We face the same challenge 
as wider business when it comes to female 
representation in this area - fewer than 3% of 
our engineers are women. 

Although this is not atypical when compared with 
other organisations like ours, and although we 
have been working on improving this imbalance,  
we recognise that we still have more to do.

Another key factor within our Supply Chain which 
contributes towards our gender pay gap is that,  
like many of our peer organisations, our male 
colleagues are more likely to work in night-shift 
roles, which pay a premium. 

Finally, our median bonus pay gap is high relative 
to our other statistics (although the number is 
small in cash terms). This is because of how our 
site bonuses paid out in 2017 and the distribution 
of male and female recipients working at each 
location - the schemes themselves are gender-
neutral in their design.

Our Corporate Functions
We face the same kind of challenge with female 
senior representation in our Corporate Functions; 
although 55% of our total workforce in this area 
are women, female representation at managerial 
levels is c. 45%. At the same time, women currently  
hold over 70% of roles at our most junior level.

Although our existing gender split at managerial 
levels gives us a firm foundation, we are 
committed to finding long-term, sustainable 
ways to improve it further – this is evidenced in 
“Our Commitments” on the next page.

<3% OF
OUR ENGINEERS
ARE FEM  LE
VS. 30% OF OUR
ENTIRE SUPPLY CHAIN
WITHIN OUR
CORPORATE FUNCTIONS
55% OF OUR
TOTAL WORKFORCE
ARE WOMEN

fem(cid:9)le represent(cid:9)tion (cid:9)t 
m(cid:9)n(cid:9)(cid:127)eri(cid:9)l levels is c. 45%.
 At the s(cid:9)me time, women 
currentl€ hold over 70%
of roles (cid:9)t our most junior level

05

Our commitments

We will take a holistic approach to addressing 
the root causes of our gender pay gap which 
focuses on all aspects of diversity and inclusion. 

With this in mind, we are proud to announce 
four commitments.

1. We Will Actively Work Towards an 
Improved Gender Balance Among 
Managers by 2025
We will focus on improving female 
representation across our entire UK and 
Ireland based management-level workforce 
and aspire towards a 50/50 balance by 2025, 
building on our current starting position of 
around 40%; the biggest impact will be seen  
in our Corporate Functions where around  
3/4 of these roles are found. 

We firmly believe that achieving a stronger 
gender balance will bring powerful benefits 
to pladis, and we look forward to making 
sustained progress over the coming years.

2. We Will Focus on Our 
Apprenticeship Talent Pipeline 
Our colleagues’ longevity of service is a great 
source of pride for us but it reminds us of the 
need to focus on building sustainable talent 
pipelines, particularly for our technical Supply 
Chain roles. Today’s workforce is made up of a 
higher proportion of women than 30 years ago; 
this gives us a platform to sustainably improve 
our balance at the very core of our business 
over the coming years.

Building on the success of our Graduate 
programme, we will now focus on our new 
Apprenticeship Programme which was 
launched in 2017 and has Manufacturing and 
Engineering careers at its core. Working with 
our training partners to drive improved gender 
balance at each stage of our attraction and 
selection processes is part of our sustainable 
diversity journey. We recognise that this 
will not happen overnight; however, we will 
continue to invest in our Apprenticeships and 
are targeting 50/50 gender balance in our 
annual cohort by 2022.

50/50

GENDER BALANCE

IN OUR

ANNUAL COHORT OF
NEW APPRENTICES

2  22

06

‘‘ Valuing our people and their diversity, 

perspectives and experience is 
essential to pladis. Our commitments, 
outlined in this report, will be realised 
by our understanding that it is our 
people and their passion which will 
drive our continued success.’’ 

Cem Karakas, pladis CEO

3. We Will Launch a pladis UK and 
Ireland Diversity and Inclusion Forum
Although we are a young company, a crucial 
part of our culture from the very beginning 
has been fostering an inclusive environment 
in which people of all backgrounds want to 
join us, feel that they can bring their whole 
selves to work, and are able to maximise their 
potential regardless of their gender, economic 
background, age or any other characteristic. 
This is a central tenet of our global Code of  
Conduct and our Winning Traits and Behaviours 
which are embodied by our colleagues.

To drive this culture – and take sustainable 
action on improving female representation at 
management levels – we are establishing a 
UK and Ireland Diversity and Inclusion Forum, 
co-chaired by Nick Bunker – Managing Director, 
pladis UK and Ireland – and Erica Coletta – 
pladis Chief Human Resources Officer. Both 
Nick and Erica sit on our global Executive 
Committee and report directly into pladis’ 
Chief Executive Officer. 

The Forum is set to meet for the first time in 
spring 2018; among its initial actions will be 
commissioning listening groups so we can 
understand from our female colleagues how 
we can best support them in their career 
development. We will also focus initially on the 
mental health and multigenerational agendas. 

4. We will Continue to Embed 
Diversity and Inclusion in Our 
Processes
We already include gender analysis in our 
key HR processes, including performance 
management and internal promotions, and 
during 2018/19 we will embed unconscious 
bias training in our first line management 
leadership programme. Our new Diversity  
and Inclusion Forum will explore new 
opportunities for embedding best practice 
within our processes and culture.

07

