Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

 

This is the first report for North Star (Guernsey), the Company, based on the UK’s new gender pay 
gap reporting requirements. 

The females employed are in the majority officers and as a result both the mean and median 
averages on hourly rate and bonus pay are higher than average male employees which generates a 
negative gender pay gap. Our continued commitment to training and development will ensure 
females attracted to the industry continue to be represented at senior levels. 

The Company partners with a training provider to give cadetships to qualify people to work at 
Officer level in the Merchant Navy. Currently 60% of the females employed by the Company are at 
Officer level having undergone sponsored training provided by the Company. 

The Company’s gender pay gap is strongly influenced by the make up of its employees, specifically 
that the Merchant Navy, and in particular the ERRV sector is a traditionally male dominated sector. 
Data from job applicants show that 100% of applicants for vacancies are from males in the three 
months to January 2018. The International Transport Workers Federation (ITF) estimates that, only 
2% of global seafarers are women and 94% of those female seafarers work either cruise ships or 
passenger ferries. 

Salaries for ranks are collectively agreed meaning that females of a particular rank receive 100% of 
that of their male equivalents 

The Company has and will continue to provide opportunities to females where possible.  

Callum Bruce 

 

Chief Executive Officer 

North Star 

Male and female employees according to quartile pay bands 

 

 

 

 

Difference between males and female employees 

Hourly rate of pay 

Bonus Pay 

 

 

 

 

 

Mean 

 

Median 

-17.76% 

-10.74% 

-21.73% 

-2.06% 

Male and female employees receiving bonus pay 

 

 

Pay data from the pay period including 5th April 2017, as specified by the UK regulations 

Pay calculations are based on basic salary, variable pay, and any bonus payments. The calculation excludes any overtime payments. 

Actual bonus payments made in the 12 months to April 2017, as specified by UK regulations 

Bonus calculations are based on the total loyalty bonus, AMA bonus, D/C bonus, and vessel bonus 

