Gender Pay Gap Reporting

Managing Director’s Introduction
Being a Fair Partner and a Good Employer is one of our three pillars of Corporate Social Responsibility and 
is embedded in our business strategy and culture. We have a proud record for nurturing and developing 
employees, and offering industry-leading benefits regardless of gender.
Over the last twelve months, in extremely challenging market conditions, we have continued to deliver 
against our strategic plan while maintaining our commitment to integrity, partnership and service. We have 
also invested significantly in our people who will ultimately deliver our future success.
Our people are at the heart of our strategy to be a first choice food and drink group, and we continuously 
seek to review how we operate to ensure that we do not discriminate against anyone – this applies to 
remuneration, career development, training and awards. The results of our Gender Pay Gap analysis are an 
important part of this commitment.
We will continue to meet the requirement to publish the prescribed Gender Pay Gap information annually.
I confirm that the data reported here is accurate and meets the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Cameron Mackintosh 
Managing Director

Gender Pay Gap calculations – an explanation
Legislation was introduced in April 2017 requiring all private businesses across the UK with 250 
employees or more to provide reports detailing their Gender Pay Gap. 
All businesses are required to publicly declare the following categories of information, which are 
calculated using payroll data. This data is based on figures drawn from the specific ‘snapshot date’ each 
year (5th April). The below information relates to the ‘snapshot date’ 5th April 2017.
Pay Gap, Mean and Median - The difference in the average hourly pay of male and female full-pay 
relevant employees, represented as a percentage of the average hourly pay of male employees. The 
mean figure is calculated as the total divided by the number elements within the data, while the median is 
the middle value in the list of numbers within the data.
A positive number indicates that on average, men earn more than women, while a negative number 
represents the reverse.
Bonus Pay Gap, Mean and Median - The difference in the average bonus pay to male and female 
relevant employees who received a bonus during the 12 months prior to the snapshot date. This is 
represented as a percentage of the average bonus pay paid to male relevant employees, as per the 
Gender Pay Gap figures.
Bonus Pay Proportion - Male employees receiving a bonus in the last 12 months, represented as a 
percentage of the male relevant employees. Female employees receiving a bonus in the last 12 months, 
represented as a percentage of the female relevant employees.
Quartiles - The proportion of male and female employees in each of four equal sized groups of 
employees (‘quartiles’) after ranking of all full-pay employees from highest to lowest by hourly rate of pay.

Published April 2018Gender Pay Gap Reporting

Our Gender Pay Gap results
Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap

Difference in median pay
Difference in mean pay

Mean and Median Gender Bonus Pay Gap

Difference in median bonus
Difference in mean bonus

5.0%
8.7%

1.0%
7.1%

Our figures show a positive mean and median Gender Pay Gap. This does not mean we do not pay male and female employees 
equally where they are working in the same role. The Gender Pay Gap looks at the overall average hourly rates of pay based on gender 
and does not take into account the particular role undertaken by the employees or other factors relevant to rates of pay, such as 
seniority, location, grade or market forces.
There is also a positive mean and median Gender Bonus Gap which means that on average, the bonuses paid to male employees are 
higher than those paid to female employees.

Difference in bonus payout
Proportion of 
employees 
receiving a 
bonus:

7.3%

2.5%

A larger proportion of male employees 
than female were paid a bonus which is 
expected given that bonuses were paid at 
a number of sites – not head office - and 
our UK site employee population contains 
a larger proportion of male employees.

Quartile ranges
Females 
27%

Lower 
quartile

Females 
24%

Females 
20%

Females 
20%

Lower 
middle 
quartile

Upper 
middle 
quartile

Top 
quartile

Males 
73%

Males 
76%

Males 
80%

Males 
80%

For enquiries relating to Princes Corporate Responsibility: corporate.resposibility@princes.co.uk
www.princesgroup.com
Princes Limited, Royal Liver Building, Pier Head, Liverpool L3 1NX United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)151 966 7000 Fax: +44 (0)151 966 7010

Published April 2018