                 Menu  Home Products Desk Systems Screens Seating Storage Steel Storage MFC Storage Storagewall Lockers Tables Acoustics Receptions Accommodation Bespoke Designs Contract Beds Downloads Projects Services About Us Contact    Search                                    Our Story   Triumph is one of the UK’s
            leading furniture manufacturers.  70 years of experience combined with an unstoppable drive
            for innovation, ensures Triumph continues to win high
            profile contracts and awards. From family run headquarters in South
            Wales, our design team’s focus on style and quality translates into
            highly effective work and breakout solutions for our customers.  Manufacturing an unrivalled range of products, Triumph Furniture
            succeeds in creating efficient and motivating environments across
            the UK, Europe and Asia. Flexible and reliable service makes Furniture as the leading choice for government departments,
            educational establishments and corporations. Triumph has
            showrooms in South Wales, London, Blackburn, Holland and
            Shanghai.  THE TRIUMPH FURNITURE TIMELINE – VIEW                                                            Manufacturing Capabilities   Our ongoing investment in facilities, equipment and business
                system means that Triumph are able to continuously improve
                efficiency throughout our business, whilst significantly
                enhancing the working environment for our people.    ISO 14001  ISO 9001  FISP (Furniture Industry Sustainability Programme)  OHSAS 18001  FIRA Gold (Lm)  FSC Chain of Custody  FIRA Club Green  Waste Carrier’s Licence  Hazardous Waste Licence                 Our Sectors   Triumph Furniture offers a
            comprehensive product portfolio, our latest innovations complement
            our established ranges – suitable for many environments within both
            public and private sectors;    Corporate  Government  Education and Training  Healthcare  Residential  Hospitality and Leisure    VIEW
            PROJECTS                                                             Total Project Capabilities   Total control over our factories and design process means that
                we can guarantee short lead-times, reliable delivery and
                complete flexibility working with you.  Everyday, through our trusted dealers and our trade partners,
                Triumph Furniture delivers on the design, manufacture and
                installation of a wide range of projects; big and small. Our
                unique desking, seating and storage collections meet all
                office, accommodation and education needs.  From initial site survey through to sign off and after care, we
                are dedicated to maintaining Triumph’s reputation as
                a company that creates aesthetic, functional and durable
                spaces.                                                              Environmental Commitment   Environmental concerns are
            an essential part of any modern business. Everyone on the Triumph
            Furniture team is integrated into a system of sustainability, from
            design through to installation. We are committed to a programme of
            continuous improvement and align our policies with Environmental
            Agency guidelines.  Triumph Furniture has an internal goal of zero waste to landfill.
            We have achieved a reduction of 3% in our waste going to landfill
            in the last 2 years.  As well as ensuring that any waste is recycled or reused, we focus
            on the total life cycle of our goods – manufacturing with high
            quality raw materials to create durable products which will last
            for many years. We are accredited to ISO 14001, and expect the same
            standard from our suppliers.                                                            Triumph Pay Gap Report     Snapshot date Person responsible for employer’s report Address Nature of business (SIC) Who received bonus pay GENDER PAY GAP REPORT - VIEW    5 April 2017 Kay Williams (Human Resources Manager) Triumph Works, The Willows, Merthyr Tydfil, Mid Glam, CF48 1YH Manufacturing No bonuses were paid                              OUTBOX Secure Storage   Launched 2017 - OUTBOX is a division of Triumph Furniture Ltd. Dedicated to business growth and maximising our corporate social responsibility - the new OUTBOX products are evidence of our long term commitment to our people, your people and our environment. Our aim is to design and manufacture Secure Sheds with Triumph’s signature build quality ensuring the highest strength, durability and value for money. If you’d like to find out more about OUTBOX, click the link below to view our secure range of garden, motorcycle, caravan site and bicycle storage.                            Connect with Triumph   Facebook  Twitter  LinkedIn  Instagram  Pinterest  YouTube    How to find us  Triumph Head Office The Willows, Merthyr Tydfil Mid Glamorgan   CF48 1YH T +44 (0)1685 384041  sales@triumphfurniture.com            Contact Us |  Careers |  Sitemap   LayerSlider        Triumph Furniture Ltd | © 2017       