Gender Pay Gap Report 
April 2017 

 

 

UK organisations with over 250 employees are now required to publish information about gender pay 
gap. The gender pay gap is distinct from the term equal pay which is concerned with the same pay for 
males and females undertaking the same or similar work.  Our gender pay gap instead refers to the 
difference between the average earnings of all male and all female employees across our company. 

At William Reed we are committed to achieving and sustaining a culture that is both fair and inclusive. 
Our values of ‘Progressive, Passionate, Responsible & Trusted’ are at the heart of our long established 
organisation.    We  strive  for  a  supportive  environment  where  our  talented  employees  have  the 
opportunity to grow their career at William Reed, regardless of gender or other characteristics.  

 

Gender Pay Gap  
 
The difference in hourly earnings 
between men and women calculated as: 
 

 

Mean  Median 

Gender Pay Gap 

23% 

18.5% 

•  mean figure (the difference between the average of men’s and women’s pay)  
•  median figure (the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of men’s and women’s pay) 

Pay Quartiles 
The proportion of males and females in each pay quartile (Q1=highest pay 
quartile and Q4=lowest pay quartile): 
 

Quartile 1

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Quartile 4

35%

65%

41%

59%

33%

33%

67%

67%

% Male

% Female

% Male

% Female

% Male

% Female

% Male

% Female

 

       Q1 Median Gap: 2% 

        Q2 Median Gap: 0.8% 

 

Q3 Median Gap: 0% 

Q4 Median Gap: 3% 

Based on our pay data from the snapshot date of 5 April 2017 we have a mean (average) gender pay 
gap of 23% and a median (middle) gender pay gap of 18.5%. This is greater than the current national 
average however we know that we are already making good progress to narrow this gap.   

When looking at pay within each pay quartile we see our median gender pay gap ranges from zero to 
3%.  We  are  satisfied  that  our  gender  pay  gap  is  not  a  problem  of  unequal  pay  but  one  of  under-
representation of women in senior level roles. Female employees make up 52% of our workforce but 
form a smaller proportion than males of the two upper pay quartiles, while dominating the two lower 
paid quartiles.   

 

Bonus Pay Gap 
 

The difference in average bonus earnings 
between men and women: 
 

Mean Gender  

Bonus Gap 

28.8% 

Median Gender 

Bonus Gap 

-13% 

At first glance our mean bonus gap looks high. We are however a relatively small organisation for 
gender pay reporting purposes and our data can be easily skewed.  If we discount from the data the 
small number of shareholder related bonuses paid during the sample period then mean average bonus 
gap is eradicated completely (Mean bonus gap of -1.7%).  
 
Indeed when looking at the median we see a negative gender bonus gap of -13% meaning that female 
employees  on  bonus  structures  actually  outperformed  males  in  the  achievement  of  bonus  for  the 
sample period. 
 
The proportion of employees receiving  
bonus in 12 months to 5 April 17: 
 
Overall however a higher proportion of male 
employees than female employees received 
bonus in the year to April 2017. This is due to 
there being a higher proportion of men than 
women in senior roles and therefore eligible 
for bonus schemes.  
 
 
 
 

Female

Male

Bonus

Non Bonus

Bonus

Non Bonus

44%

56%

54%

46%

How are we making a difference?   
 
These are just some of our initiatives that will help to have a positive impact on our gender pay gap: 
 
▪ 

In addition to our enhanced maternity pay we will be announcing plans to enhance shared parental 
leave pay later this year. This will improve the opportunity for new parents of all genders to take 
extended periods of leave following the birth of a child.  

▪  We will continue to improve the quality of contact and support for employees on and returning 
from maternity leave or shared parental leave including more structured use of KIT days, return 
programmes and mentoring schemes. 

▪  We  are  providing  better  information  and  training  for  Managers  on  the  benefits  of  flexible  and 

inclusive ways of working. 

▪  We will continue to provide opportunities for part-time working at all levels of the organisation 
wherever possible, including senior manager roles. This practice has already resulted in a negligible 
pay gap between average part-time hourly rate and average full-time hourly rate.   

▪  We  have  introduced  interview  training  for  all  recruiting  Managers  that  includes  training  on 

diversity and unconscious bias. 

▪  We will continue to encourage dialogue with all our employees to discuss their experiences and 

ideas.   

 

 
 
 
Charles Reed 
Group Managing Director 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
Jenny Stone 
Group HR Director 

