Fieldﬁ sher 
Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Fieldfi sher aims to create a workplace where our people can thrive and be themselves, 
one that refl ects an inclusive society as well as recognises the needs of our own diverse 
group of clients. We were the third law fi rm to achieve the National Equality Standard (NES). 
Our approach to Inclusiveness & Diversity (I&D) is central to the fi rm’s overall strategy. 
One of the main elements of our I&D Strategy is our Balanced Talent Pipeline initiative 
which focuses on ensuring a level playing fi eld with respect to pay, development and 
progression for everyone within the fi rm.  

Pay & Bonus Gap
The table below shows our mean and median hourly gender pay gap at the snapshot date 
(i.e. 5th April 2017) and our mean and median bonus pay gap in the year up to then.

Hourly pay
Bonus

mean

16.5%
23.3%

median

22.2%
0%

Analysis has shown that while there is a gender pay gap, this is driven by the larger proportion 
of men being in more senior roles, with our secretarial population being predominately 
women. In addition, we have further analysed the pay gap within our fee earning and partner 
population. Within our fee earners, there is a 0.4% mean hourly pay gap and a negative 3.15% 
for the median hourly rate. Within our partner group, there is a 35.7% mean hourly pay gap 
and a 41.2% gap for the median hourly rate.
At Fieldfi sher we are confi dent that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs 
across the business; we invest considerable time and eff ort each year moderating our salary 
and recruitment decisions to ensure consistency across the business. In addition, our Head of 
I&D takes part in all salary review moderations to help ensure objectivity and transparency.  

Proportion of employees receiving a bonus
Men 70.7%

Women 64.6%

“Analysis has shown that 
while there is a gender 
pay gap, this is driven by 
the larger proportion of 
men being in more senior 
roles, with our secretarial 
population being 
predominately women. 
Within our fee earners, 
there is only a 0.4% 
mean hourly pay gap 
and a negative 3.15% for 
the median hourly rate.”

This shows a 6.1% diff erence between 
the proportion of men and women being 
paid a bonus over the 12 month period up 
to 5th April 2017. We believe that this is 
largely driven by a performance related 
bonus scheme which was only in place 
for a proportion of our workforce 
(fee earners) and not for  business 
services (which has a larger female 
population). This has been addressed 
for our current performance year with 
the launch of a performance related 
bonus scheme for business services.

Lower quartile
Men 31%

Lower middle quartile
Men 32%

Upper middle quartile
Men 35.6%

Top quartile
Men 43%

Women 69%

Women 68% Women 64.4% Women 57%

The chart above shows that the gender distribution at Fieldfisher across four equally  
sized quartiles. The data shows that we have a large proportion of women in the lower 
quartile suggesting that we have more women in more junior roles across the firm.

Our I&D activities
We know that there are significant challenges, particularly at partner level, and we will 
continue to invest time reviewing our policies and procedures across the board to address  
the gender gap. This includes any process that might have an impact on the talent pipeline, 
such as our appraisal and remuneration systems, our partner selection and promotion process, 
our work allocation procedures, and our approach to flexible and agile working. 
With respect to partners in particular, we know that we still have work to do, and our  
HR Director and Head of I&D have been working with our Managing Partner on a targeted 
action plan based on our policy and procedure review. Working on closing this gap is a 
strategic priority for the firm.
At the fee earner level, our continued focus on the talent pipeline is beginning to take effect 
as we aim to improve the percentage of women in more senior roles. For example, in our 
latest promotion round, of the 12 Associates promoted to Senior Associate, 11 were women. 
As a result, 75% of our Senior Associates are now women.   
In addition, we continue to expand our internal offering of inclusive campaigns and 
programmes in connection with our gender diversity work at the firm. One such initiative  
is our ‘I-Plus’ programme. ‘I-Plus’ is a collaboration between our People and Organisational 
Development and I&D teams that delivers training on resilience, mindfulness, learned 
optimism and self-confidence. Open to all, the workshops include open discussions on the 
similarities and differences men and women may face within these topics. The “I-Plus” 
programme is also designed to identify opportunities to integrate I&D related themes such  
as unconscious bias, sponsorships and flexibility into all areas of our training programme. 
I confirm the data reported is accurate.

Michael Chissick 
Managing Partner

“Our continued focus 
on the talent pipeline is 
beginning to take effect  
as we aim to improve  
the percentage of women  
in more senior roles.  
For example, in our latest 
promotion round, of the 
12 Associates promoted to 
Senior Associate, 11 were 
women. As a result, 75%  
of our Senior Associates  
are now women.”  

