 

 

THE WHITE HORSE FEDERATION - GENDER PAY GAP REPORT  

Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, and as an 
employer with over 250 employees, The White Horse Federation is required to measure and report 
on the gender pay gap in the organisation. The Federation is a public sector body and has a data 
capture date of 31 March in each year. 

Under the regulations there is a requirement to report on the following 6 measures: 

  The difference in the mean pay of full pay men and women expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in median pay of full pay men and women expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in mean bonus pay of full pay men and women expressed as a percentage 
  The difference in median bonus pay and women expressed as a percentage 
  The proportion of men and women who received bonus pay and 
  The proportion of full pay men and women in each of four quartile bands  

This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in our organisation. We are required to publish the results on our own website and 
a government website. 

In relation to these measures the data is based on staff paid on the data capture date through our 
payroll provider at 31st March 2017. 

The results for the statutory calculations are:  

1.  The Mean Gender Pay Gap – The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay that male and 

female full-pay relevant employees receive: 23.3%.  

      This shows that, overall, female employees receive 23.3% lower pay than male employees.  

2.  The Median Gender Pay Gap – The difference between the median hourly rate of pay that male 

and female full-pay relevant employees receive: 34.4%.  

This shows that, typically, female employees receive lower pay than male employees.  

3.  The Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap – The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male 

relevant employees and that paid to female relevant employees: 100.0% 

This shows that, mainly male employees received a bonus.  

4.  The Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap – The difference between the median bonus pay paid to 

male relevant employees and that paid to female relevant employees: 0.0% 
 
This shows that bonuses were only paid to one female employee, 
 

5.  The Bonus proportions Gender Pay Gap - The proportion of male and female relevant employees 

who were paid bonus pay during the relevant period. Male 3% Female 0.1%  

 

 

 

This shows that bonuses were only paid to one female employee, 

6.  The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band:  

 Lower Pay Band Quartile  

o Male Employees: 9.6% Female Employees: 90.4%  

 Lower Middle Pay Band Quartile  

o Male Employees: 9.1% Female Employees: 90.9%  

 Upper Middle Pay Band Quartile  

o Male Employees: 22.6% Female Employees: 77.4%  

 Upper Pay Band Quartile  

o Male Employees: 23.1% Female Employees: 76.9%  
 

Supporting Statement and Narrative  

 

The White Horse Federation operates as an equal opportunities employer, and does not discriminate 
in any way (as defined by the Equalities Act 2010 and other relevant legislation), regarding 
recruitment, performance management and employee career development opportunities. 
 
At the data capture date The White Horse Federation consisted of 

2 Secondary academies 
1 Special academy 
14 Primary academies 

- 
- 
- 
-  Central Office 

 

We are a flexible employer and a significant number of our employees take up this flexibility and in 
line with education roles many of the female employees are part-time. 
 
Working in education it is common for a high proportion of the workforce to be female. The staffing 
within the Federation has mainly joined via TUPE processes. 

 

The majority of roles in the trust are part-time, either aligning closely with the hours of attendance 
of pupils or for part of that time. This not only includes the number hours per week but also the 
number of weeks worked each year. Whilst this will impact on the average salaries, it is a factor that 
influences the decision of applicants and the continuation of employment from staff.  
 
It is recognised in education that 

-  More women apply to work in the sector due to attractive working patterns i.e. part 

time and term time contracts to work around child care responsibilities 
Part time work can be less highly paid 

- 
-  Many female returners to employment apply to the public sector 
- 

Female staff are more likely to have career breaks and may not progress into senior 
leadership roles 

 

We use the pay scales for teaching staff in accordance with the School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions 
document. For the majority of support staff, we use the pay scales set by the NJC (National Joint 
Council for Local Government Services) and for a small number of senior support professional roles 
we use the Hay Pay Scale. 

 

 

 

Staff move through the pay scales for their grade based on a thorough and robust performance 
management process, meaning that earnings are based on performance outcomes, irrespective of 
gender. 

 

We have a higher proportion of females in every quartile, including the upper quartile. This 
illustrates that the overall pay gap is a result of the low proportion of males in more junior grades. 
 
The area of concern for the Federation is the gender pay gap at senior leadership level within the 
Academies and central federation team. The issue is the predominance of male post holders in the 
highest paid positions in Secondary Schools and in the central Trust. It is not unusual to see more 
male Secondary Principals than female Principals, whereas the reverse is true at the Primary Schools. 
 
It is recognised that under TUPE processes the Federation has no control over staffing complement 
where academies join the Federation. 
 
The Federation is looking to implement a leadership development programme for those aspiring to 
middle and senior leadership to enable access to all staff. 

 

The Board of Directors reviewed this data and will consider the progress made on reducing the 
gender pay gap regularly.  

 

I confirm that the above information has been prepared from our payroll data from 5th April 2017 
and fairly represents the Gender Pay Gap information for The White Horse Federation 

 

Nick Capstick 
CEO 
The White Horse Federation 

 

 

