  0800 138 0458 Pay Online      MENU  Navigation  Contact Us Personal Law Brain Injury & Serious Injury Criminal Law Child Care Law Child Abuse Compensation Clinical Negligence Court of Protection Divorce & Family Law Housing Law Inquest Law Mental Health Law Professional Negligence Residential Conveyancing Therapy & Professional Abuse Wills & Probate Business Law Commercial Property Fraud & Business Crime About Us About Switalskis Our Lawyers Our Directors Management Team Events & Training Blog Search Contact Us Personal Law Brain Injury & Serious Injury Criminal Law Child Care Law Child Abuse Compensation Clinical Negligence Court of Protection Divorce & Family Law Housing Law Inquest Law Mental Health Law Professional Negligence Residential Conveyancing Therapy & Professional Abuse Wills & Probate Business Law Commercial Property Fraud & Business Crime About Us About Switalskis Our Lawyers Our Directors Management Team Events & Training Blog Search   Updates from our legal experts Switalskis Blog > 2017 Gender pay gap report  2017 Gender pay gap report  A message from John Durkan , Managing Director of Switalskis Solicitors Limited I am pleased to report there is no significant gender pay gap at Switalskis. Gender pay equality is not something we have purposely set out to achieve at Switalskis, however, I believe it has naturally occurred because we are essentially fair employers. So, although the figures I will set out below reconfirmed to the directors what they thought i.e. there is no gender pay bias at Switalskis, it is not something we are proud of as this should be the pay landscape at Switalskis, if we are fair employers. The mean pay gap between men and women is 3.41% in the favour of men. However, if you look behind the headline figure, it is clear that there is no gender pay bias at Switalskis. It is also important to note that within our figures that we have included the salaries of all directors as well. Many law firms have resisted disclosing the salaries of partners in their law firms, for two reasons. One, because there is no current legal requirement to do so, and secondly because by disclosing such figures, the gender pay gap significantly increased sometimes to 50% and above, due to fact that male partners generally held the highest paying roles. In addition, of the law firm gender pay gap reports I have read to date, I have not come across another law firm that has such a low overall mean pay gap between men and women. Most have reported differences of anywhere between 20% – 30% and sometimes much more. Switalskis is a professional services firm – given this, there are two distinct groups of employees, fee earners and support staff. We have therefore disclosed further data, over and above the legal requirement, to explain our figures. On doing this the results showed that female fee earners on average were paid 6.33% more than males and male support are paid 3.44% more than females. Support staff in legal firms are generally paid less than fee earners, and because we have a high number of female support staff (108) this meant the overall mean pay rate of female staff was 3.41% less than males. This is because the percentage of male support staff as a proportion of total male staff is considerably less than the percentage of female support staff as a proportion of total female staff. We employ 51 males, of which 17 are in support roles i.e. 33%, whereas we employ 199 females, of which 108 are in support roles i.e. 54%. Female fee earners were generally paid higher than males, because there was a high number of female fee earners in senior roles in the company. Male support were paid slightly more than female support staff, given a high proportion of male support staff are employed in roles such as IT or Accounts, which traditionally in law firms are roles that are paid at a higher rate than secretarial positions, which are generally filled by females. The full detailed gender pay gap report is also disclosed here. John Durkan 4 th April 2018     4th April 2018 < Back to all articles  Share Article:     More Information: Client Care Funding Your Case Newsletter Careers Work Experience Refund Policy Cookie Policy Privacy Policy Feedback Survey Send Us A Message:      Select a Service Adult Abuse Claims Brain Injury & Serious Injury Child Abuse Claims Child Care Law Commercial Conveyancing Court of Protection Criminal Defence Deputyship Family Law Family Mediation Housing Law Inquests Lasting Power of Attorney Legal Training Medical Negligence Mental Health Law Motoring & Road Traffic Defence Probate & Administration of Estates Professional Negligence Residential Conveyancing Trusts & Inheritance Tax Planning Wills Any Other Enquiries Client Feedback Your Message Newsletter sign up?  Follow Us:  @Switalskis  Tweets by @Switalskis    Switalskis Solicitors is a trading name of Switalskis Solicitors Limited, a Company registered in England and Wales. Registered Number: 8924632. VAT Number: 591 0298 34. Switalskis Solicitors Limited is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. A list of the names and professional qualifications of our Directors is available from our Registered Office: 19 Cheapside, Wakefield WF1 2SD - Solicitors Regulation Authority Code of Conduct . This website may occasionally refer to a 'Partner' of Switalskis. This means a Director of Switalskis Solicitors Limited.   Contact Us Personal Law Business Law About Us Events & Training Blog Built by ATTERCOPIA©     Type and Press “enter” to Search 