FromThe  Bursar  and Clerk to the Governors
MarkTäylor
+44 (0) 1227  sgss++
bursar@kings-school.  co. uk

The IArg's School
Canterbury

The Kingts  School, Canterbury  is required by law to publish an annual gender
pay gap report.

This is its report for the .rr"Olno, date of 5 April 2017.

.  The mean gender  pay gap for The King's  School is 20.38%.
.  The median gender  pay gap for The King's  School is 2l.l8o/o.
.  The mean gender  bonus  gap for The King's  School is 17 .44o/o.
.  The median  gender bonus  gap for The King's School is 0% (No difference  in result)
.  The proportion  of male employees in The King's School  receiving  a bonus  ís 57Vo

and the proportion  of female employees  receiving  a bonus  is 43o/o.

Pay quartiles by gender

Band  Males

Females  Description

A

B

C

D

2l% 

79o/o

Includes  all employees whose  standard hourly rate places
them  at or below the lower quartile

+7Vo 

53o/o

Includes  all employees whose  standard hourly rate places
, them above the lower quartile but at or below the median

+5% 

55%

Includes  all employees whose  standard hourly rate places
them above the median but at or below the upper  quartile

54o/o 

460/o

Includes  all employees whose  standard hourly rate places
them above the upper  quartile

The figures set out above have been calculated using  the standard  methodologies  used in the
Equality  Act 2010 (Gender  Pay Gap Information)  Regulations  2O17.

What  are the underlying  causes of Kingts gender pay gap?
Under the law, men and women must receive  equal pay for:

the sarne or broadly similar work;

. 
.  work rated  as equivalent  under  a job evaluation  scheme;  or
.  work of equal  value.

rhe  King,s Schoor, ;îi" il::#:,'ä:.5".,  Kent cr1 2ES

Registered  Charity No. 307942

The King's  School  is committed  to the principle  of equal  opportunities and  equal  treatment
for all employees,  regardless of sex, race, religion  or belief, age, marriage or civil
partnership,  pregnancy/maternity,  sexual orientation,  gender reassignment  or disability
(please  see the School's Equal  Opportunities  eolicy). It works hard to ensure it pays
employees equally for the same or equivalent  work,  regardless of their sex (or any other
characteristic  set out above).

The King's  School  is therefore confident that its gender  pay gap does not stem from paying
men and women  differently  for the sÍune or equivalent  work. Rather  its gender  pay gap  is
the result of the proportion  of females versus  males currently employed across the lower
quartiles, specifically quartile one  as evidenced  in the table depicting  quartiles by gender.

The pay quartiles by gender table  shows the King's  Schools  workforce  divided  into four
equal-sized  groups based  on hourly  pay rates, with  Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of
employees (the lower  quartile)  and Band D covering  the highest-paid 25o/o  (the upper
quartile).  In order for there  to be no gender pay gap, there would  need to be an equal  ratio
of men to women in each  Band.  However,  within The King's  School, 79%o  of the employees
in Band A are women  and 2lo/o men.  The  percentage of male employees increases
throughout  the remaining  Bands,  lrom 47o/o in Band  B to 5+o/o  in Band D.  In fact it is
testament  to King's  commitment  to equal opportunities  that the in-balance in quartile's  A,
B and C, does  not make  the GPGR bigger than reported.

\Mider  Gender Pay Gap Analysis
Across the UK economy  as a whole,  men  are more likely than women to be in senior roles
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations),  while  women are more likely than
men to be in front-line  roles  at the lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are
more likely to be in technical and lT-related  roles, which  attract  higher rates  of pay than
other roles at similar levels of seniority.  Women  are also more likely than men to have had
breaks  from work that have  affected their  career progression, for example to bring up
children.  They are also more likely  to work part time, and many of the jobs that are
available  across  the UK on a part-time  basis are relatively low paid.

This pattern  from the UK economy as a whole is reflected  in the make-up of The King's
Schools workforce,  where the majority  of Domestic  Cleaners and Food Service Assistants
are women, while many of the support line managers and senior  manager roles including
the Headmaster  KSC, Headmaster  JKS and Bursar  (at the time of the data capture) were
held by men.

What is Kingts doing to address  its gender pay gap?
While the King's School  believes there is clear  statistical  evidence to explain the results of
its gender pay gap, it is not a subject about  which the School is complacent,  and it is
committed to doing  everything  that it can to reduce the gap. However,  the School  also
recognises that its scope to act is limited in some  areas - it has, for example, no direct

control over who applies for what roles in the School or the career  choices of current or
future  employees.

That said, having fully analysed the results  of the Schools gender pay gap, moving forward
the School proposes  to review  its flexible working  policy to ensure  it replicates  the School's
ethos of recognising  the benefit that flexible  working  opportunities  can provide in attracting
both working parents and carers.  The policy  will also clearly outline  that employees in all
areas and  levels of the organisation will be considered for flexible  working where possible,
regardless  of their role and that flexible working  need not be limited to part-time  working.

The King's  School  understands  that this initiative  alone will not remove the gender pay gap
and that it may be several years before  it has any impact at all. In tàe meantime, the King's
School  is committed  to reporting on an annual  basis, what it is doing  to reduce  the gender
pay gap  and the progress  that it is making.

I, Mark Taylor, Bursar, confirm  that the

Sþed: 

Date

Â./. L\
,J.lul ,4

in this statement is accurate.

