VOLVO GROUP UK 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

VOLVO GROUP UK 
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

The UK government has introduced a requirement for all 
businesses with 250 or more employees to publish annually 
updated information about their Gender Pay Gap.

The first set of data must be published by April 2018. 

It should be noted that the Gender Pay Gap is not about Equal Pay. The Gender Pay Gap calculation 
takes the average hourly rate for all women across the organisation and compares it to the average hourly 
rate for all men across the organisation, whereas Equal Pay is about ensuring men and women doing the 
same job are paid at equivalent rates. Where an organisation has a Gender Pay Gap this does not show that 
men and women are paid differently for carrying out similar roles. 

According to ONS figures for 2016, the median Gender Pay Gap across the whole of the UK was 18.1%. 
This means that Volvo Group UK Ltd is currently in line with the UK as a whole.

GENDER PAY GAP
HOURLY PAY

BONUS PAY

MEAN

13.43%

MEDIAN

18.34%

UK MEDIAN

18.1%

MEAN

53.56%

MEDIAN

40.07%

BONUSES PAID

PROPORTION OF WOMEN  

RECEIVING A BONUS

PROPORTION OF MEN  
RECEIVING A BONUS

60.32%

42.54%

QUARTILES

14.16%

8.67%

21.33%

27.17%

Q U A R T I L E   1

( H I G H E S T )

Q U A R T I L E   2

Q U A R T I L E   3

85.84%

91.33%

78.67%

Q U A R T I L E   4

72.83%

Understanding Volvo’s Gender Pay Gap

The gender pay gap can be influenced by a range of socio-economic factors – for example women returning 
to work part-time following career breaks for childcare reasons. The sector in which Volvo Group UK 
operates has traditionally suffered from an inability to attract female employees. Whilst this is an issue for 
most engineering employers, Volvo Group UK’s median gender pay gap of 18.34% is more or less in line 
with the figure reported by ONS for the whole UK economy. However, Volvo Group UK recognises that more 
progress needs to be made. 

The bonus pay gap figure is distorted by the high number of males in senior roles, as evidenced by the 
quartile figures, which show that over 85% of Volvo Group UK’s most highly paid employees are male. 

The figures showing that females are more likely to receive a bonus than males are because female 
employees tend to be employed in White Collar roles, which attract a bonus, whereas Blue Collar roles are 
dominated by male employees. 

What is Volvo doing?

Volvo Group UK is part of a global organisation, and as such, we recognise that a diverse workforce is 
a key driver for success. We are committed to being an equal opportunities employer. We take a proactive 
stance on diversity and, whilst attracting and retaining female employees is a challenge for the whole of the 
engineering sector, Volvo Group UK has been working to improve our position. 

We have been working with colleges to build a female apprentice network with other employers to help 
support our apprentices. We also ensure we’re showing that engineering isn’t just a job for men when we 
attend national skills shows or carry out apprentice presentations. And we’ve been successful in attracting 
female apprentices, with our Truck and Bus Centres working to ensure they are a welcoming environment 
for everyone. We’ve also recently appointed Resourcing Specialists in our Warwick Head Office and also 
within each of our Truck & Bus Centre regions, who will be proactively managing our recruitment strategy to 
ensure we are attracting a diverse workforce. 

We ensure our managers are fully trained in interview techniques to recognise the importance of  
making non-biased recruitment decisions. Some of our Business Areas, particularly at the Warwick Head 
Office, operate “core hours”, recognising that employees appreciate flexibility in managing their outside  
work commitments. 

And finally, we’ll also be introducing a mentoring programme which will be open to everyone, and we’ll be 
encouraging our high potential female employees to take part. 

I confirm the data to be accurate:

Arne Knaben
Managing Director
Volvo Group Trucks UK & Ireland

Volvo Group UK
www.volvogroup.com

