GENDER PAY  
GAP REPORT

At BLM we are committed to providing a fair  
and diverse workplace, where job opportunities 
are available for everybody regardless of gender 
and that we pay women and men equally for  
the work they undertake. 

What is Gender Pay Gap Reporting?
From 2017, the British Government  
(excluding Republic of Ireland) introduced  
new legislation which meant that any business  
with more than 250 employees must publish  
and report specific figures about their gender  
pay gap. There are six calculations we are  
required to report on, but we have taken  
the opportunity to extend the supporting 
information by setting out the approaches  
we are taking to ensure the wellbeing of all  
our employees.
All of our employees are vital to our  
ongoing success, and we believe that it  
is a clear responsibility to ensure that  
we support everyone to reach their full  
potential, irrespective of gender. 
Following our employee engagement survey  
in February 2017, we have been working  
closely with our employees through our own 
Employee forum (the Voice of BLM). 
We have gained valuable insight from the  
feedback captured and have already made  
significant changes to how we reward,  
recognise and develop our employees. 

Calculations 1-4: Gender Pay & Bonus Gap  
(as at 5 April 2017) 

The gender pay gap is the difference between the  
average earnings of men and women, regardless of  
the nature of their work and level within the business. 

The below table shows the mean and median gender  
pay and bonus pay gap at BLM, as at 5 April 2017. 

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Gap

Mean

18.4%

26.2%

Median

22.4%

37.4%

The ‘mean’ is the average when you add all the values together  
and divide by the number of employees 
The ‘median’ is the middle number. To calculate the median of any  
set of numbers, these are written in order, and the number is the 
middle of this.

Calculation 5. Proportion of Employees  
(by male and by female) receiving a bonus

Whereas the gender pay gap figures include pay received in April 2017, 
the gender bonus gap figures will include bonus payments received in 
the preceding 12 months – from 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017.

Proportion of Males receiving a bonus

55.2%

Proportion of Females receiving a bonus

48.7%

2

Calculation 6. Pay Quartiles:  
Illustrating the proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered from lowest to highest pay.

Another requirement of the new legislation is that  
we break the information down into ‘quartiles’.  
This is done by putting all employees in order of their 
hourly rate of pay (as at April 2017), with the lowest paid 
at the bottom and highest at the top, and then splitting 
them into four equal groups: the lowest 25 per cent are 
in one group, the next 25 per cent in another, until each 
is allocated. The image below shows the proportion of 
males and females in each quartile at BLM. 

In the middle of each chart we have included the mean 
gender pay gap for all the employees in each quartile. 
Whereas the overall gender pay figures include all men 
and women employed at BLM, breaking it down by  
quartiles means we are more likely to be comparing  
like-for-like roles in the calculations.

1. Lower Quartile
This table illustrates the lowest 
quartile of those at BLM, where 
just over two-thirds of women 
employed are paid 3.5% more 
than their male counterparts.

Female - 69.4%
Male - 30.6%

3. Upper Middle Quartile
The third group of employees, 
receiving pay in the upper  
middle quartile are relatively 
similar with a 1.7% gap

Female - 64.7%
Male - 35.3%

-3.5%

1.7%

2. Lower Middle Quartile
For our lower middle quartile 
there is a gap, but at this point 
it is 1.1%, again a group where 
women dominate at 74.2%

Female - 74.2%
Male - 25.8%

4. Upper Quartile
The top quartile where females 
employed are 53.1% overall, 
illustrates an area of focus for  
us given the 7.7% gap. 

Female - 53.1%
Male - 46.9%

1.1%

7.7%

3

We acknowledge that we have a gender pay gap; we have 
approaches in place to narrow that gap and support our 
commitment to equal pay for comparable roles.

Understanding the gap that we have, and our next steps to address it:
To understand the reasons behind our gender pay  
gap, we have interrogated our pay data in a variety  
of different ways. We do not believe the gap is as a  
result of unequal pay. We review all employees’ pay 
annually together with our own pay policies to ensure  
we offer equal pay for equal work, regardless of gender. 
The gender pay gap calculations compare all women 
against all men, regardless of role, based on a snapshot 
date of 5 April 2017. 

Females represent 65 per cent of total BLM employees  
during the time under review, and are represented  
at all levels within the firm. However, the proportion  
of females in legal support roles is much higher at  
87 per cent, meaning that we have a disproportionate 
number of females in our lower paid roles.

In terms of our bonus pay gap, this includes all financial 
bonuses paid in the 12 months preceding 5 April 2017. 
The Government has stipulated that bonus calculations 
be based on the actual amounts paid, rather than on  
a full-time equivalent basis. As the vast majority of  
our part time workers are female, this has naturally  
had an adverse effect on our overall bonus gap. 

Part Time Employees

Full Time Employees

Female - 92.41%
Male - 7.59%

Female - 58.34%
Male - 41.66%

4

Our Approach 
We are committed to ensuring equal pay across a fully diverse workforce that feels recognised and able to reach  
their full potential. These are some of the steps we have or will be taking in the near future which will help us  
achieve our aims:

•  Employee Forum – following our Firm-wide employee 

engagement survey conducted in February 2017 we 
have established an employee forum. It is chaired by our 
Managing Partner and we have representatives in every 
office. The aim of the forum is to ensure that every 
employee feels ‘included’ in BLM and has a ‘voice’.

•  Across BLM, 65 per cent of all our employees are 
female and 52 per cent of our partners are female.  
A lot of this is due to our support of agile working  
and family friendly practices that help to create a good 
work life balance for both men and women. We have 
invested heavily in technology to enable staff to work 
seamlessly from outside our office locations. Where 
work type permits, employees can currently work 
flexibly from home for up to two days a week, and  
with further planned improvements this can be 
extended to more employees across the firm.

•  Staggered start and finish times – employees can 

now request a start time to suit their individual needs, 
providing it can be accommodated within their team. 
This is available for all staff, irrespective of their personal 
circumstances. This option is in addition to statutory 
flexible working. 

•  Diversity and Inclusion – our aim is to be more  

aware of our diversity make up and to create more 
diverse opportunities for everyone. We have a  
diversity and inclusion section on our intranet which 
includes a ‘diversity calendar’ highlighting certain events 
and religious festivals, our policy and links to useful 
websites for further advice and support as well as 
key contacts within the firm. We are a member of the 
Inclusive Top 50 UK employer rankings. 
 
We support diversity initiatives including sitting as 
committee members for the insurance industry’s  
Dive In festival (to promote diversity and inclusion  
in the sector), Women in Business networking  
events and Women in the Law.

•  We are also members of the Working Families 

organisation and as part of this we are conducting 
a best practice review of our flexible/agile working 
and parent/carer policies and practices. We have 
entered into a benchmarking programme to enable 
us to understand our current position among fellow 
progressive employers, identifying our strengths and 
areas for improvement.

•  All employees are required to complete our 

compulsory online Diversity and Inclusion awareness 
training which includes a section on unconscious bias. 
Our management development programme has also 
been updated and relaunched to inform and raise 
awareness around these behaviours.

5

•  Recruitment - advertising copy for vacancies at BLM is 
regularly audited for gender neutrality through the use 
of tools such as gender-decoder to ensure that  
our vacancies are as inclusive as possible. Although 
every candidate is assessed for suitability for the role 
purely on their skills, experience and qualifications, 
further initiatives are planned including “blind” CVs  
and the provision of unconscious bias in interview 
training to all hiring managers.

•  Career progression – we are introducing talent 

development programmes to support each employee’s 
chosen career path within the Firm.

•  The BLM inclusive and transparent bonus scheme  
has been extended so that everyone shares in the 
success of the Firm. From the 2017/18 financial year  
all employees are included in a bonus scheme 
appropriate for their individual role. 

•  Our promotion criteria is intended to be transparent, 

fair and equitable to ensure career development  
within BLM for all colleagues regardless of gender  
or circumstance. Employees who wish to be  
considered for promotion must meet specific 
performance indicators required of the role and 
demonstrate that they are in line with our values  
and behavioural competencies. 

•  Pay processes – BLM is committed to ensuring  

equal pay for work of equal value. We are reviewing  
our pay structures with a view to introducing salary 
bands that are appropriate to expertise, market rate 
and work type. Since 2014 we have managed our pay 
processes centrally to ensure our salary benchmarking 
data is consistent, accurate and robust across the Firm. 

We are confident that we are moving forward, embedding the policies, behaviours and frameworks 
underpinning each of these initiatives. We will continue to consider what more we need to do in 
the future to support BLM’s ambition to improve the gender pay gap and continue to focus on 
ensuring all employees have the means to reach their full potential. We seek transparency and an 
open culture to deliver this. We are investing in our people and aim to retain the talent already at 
BLM whilst attracting others who are looking to join our positive workplace.

We confirm the data reported is accurate and calculated in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) regulations 2017.

Vivienne Williams  
Managing Partner

Louise McCarthy-Teague
Human Resources Director

6

