 
 

 

SQS 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

This  report  has  been  prepared  in  line  with  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information) 
Regulations 2017 and Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017. All 
data  in  this  report  is  based  on  the  5th  April  2017.  SQS  Group  Limited  based  in  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland has a combined headcount of 311 employees at 5 April 2017. The gender split is 75% 
Male and 25% Female and the mean gender pay gap is 31.6%.  

SQS Pay & Bonus Gap 

  
Hourly fixed pay 
Bonus paid 

 

Mean (Average)  Median (Mid-point) 
31.6% 
72.9% 

17.8% 
54.6% 

The table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as 
at the snapshot date. It also captures the mean and median difference between bonuses paid to men 
and women in the year up to 5 April 2017, i.e. for the 2016 performance year. 

The IT sector has predominantly appealed to a much higher number of males than females and we are 
working on raising awareness of careers in IT to change this. We also want to encourage more women 
into bonus paying roles, such as Sales and Delivery.  

Bonus gender pay gap  

The proportion of males and females who received a bonus in the year to the 5th April 2017. 

22.6% of males receiving a bonus

18.2% of females receiving a bonus

 

 

 

 

 
Male and Female employees by pay quartile 

 

This  includes  all  permanent  employees  who  have  had  no  leave  in  the  pay  period,  and  shows  the 
percentage of male and female employees in each pay quartile.  

Male

Female

U P P E R   Q U A R T I L E

89.6%

10.4%

M I D - U P P E R   Q U A R T I L E

L O W E R - M I D   Q U A R T I L E

74.0%

75.3%

26.0%

24.7%

L O W E R   Q U A R T I L E

65.8%

34.2%

 

How will SQS address the gender pay gap?  

We know that this is a longer-term process but we are actively looking into areas that will address the 
gaps in both the pay and bonus areas.  We are looking to revise existing policies and working practises 
that  will  benefit  women  more  specifically,  and  we  have  plans  to  move  forward  on  a  number  of 
initiatives. 
 

  Encourage  more  females  into  senior  positions  and  bonus  paying  roles  through  internal 

workshops, learning and development programmes and recruitment campaigns. 

  Working on the talent pipeline  to ensure that we  improve  diversity at  all  levels within the 
business. We engage with organisations that focus on hiring women back into work to support 
our long term  growth in female talent.   
Increasing the presence of females in shortlisting’s throughout the recruitment process using 
targeted recruitment and job boards to support this initiative. 

 

  Focus on getting more females into SQS from Graduate level using target campaigns to ensure 

a longer term, sustainable talent mix.  

  Ensure  we  have  development  programmes  to  actively  engage  and  retain  females  in  the 

workplace. 

  The working hours our employees undertake are dictated by our Clients, however we will look 

at working environment which encourages more flexibility.  

 Declaration 

I confirm that the SQS gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the 
Regulations. 

 

Kevin Cunningham 
Managing Director – UK  

