Gender Pay 
Gap Report 
2017

At Equifax UK Ltd, we are committed to being open, 
transparent and accountable in our treatment of 
employees, and this extends to equality and diversity. 

Gender pay reporting regulations give us the opportunity 
to share our record in this area and to reinforce our 
commitment to reducing the gaps reported. 

The following report, data and information presented in 
this report are accurate and meet the requirements of 
the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

John Garside
VP HR – Europe
Equifax

Our gender pay gap for April 2017 is:

Pay

Bonus paid

18.7%

Lower

15%

Lower

37.3%

Lower

22.5%

Lower

Mean

Median

Mean

Median

% of gender receiving a bonus at April 2017:

78% of male

70% of female

Our gender representation by Pay Quartiles at April 2017:

76% 24%

62% 38%

57% 43%

51% 49%

Upper 
Quartile

Upper middle 

Quartile

Lower middle 

Quartile

Lower 
Quartile

What is Gender Pay Reporting?

Gender pay reporting is a new requirement on organisations introduced by the UK 
government in 2017. All organisations with 250 employees or more in England, 
Scotland or Wales are required to publish their pay gap between men and women. It 
has been the law in the UK to pay men and women equally for doing work of equal 
value since the 1970 Equal Pay Act became law in 1971. Gender pay reporting takes 
gender equality further by creating greater transparency and encouraging a more 
balanced representation of men and women at all levels within the organization. 

Gender Pay Reporting does not look at Equal Pay

Gender Pay Reporting Regulation is not to be confused with the Equal Pay legislation. 
Gender Pay looks at the pay gap of a combined workforce, no matter of role, to 
highlight to companies if they need to improve a variety of policies to narrow the gap. 
Gender Pay reporting essentially reflects 
the underlying gender balance in an 
organization, particularly at more senior 
level roles.

Gender pay reporting takes gender 
equality further by creating greater 
transparency and encouraging a 
more balanced representation of 
men and women at all levels... 

Equal Pay looks to identify pay 
differentials where employees are carrying 
out the same or similar roles. Our pay 
practices and approach to decision 

making on remuneration are set up, such that we value and reward work based on the 
role requirements, irrespective of gender. We do not believe our gender pay and bonus 
gap is an equal pay issue as our pay and bonus policies are gender neutral.

Equifax UK Ltd - our gender pay gap

Based on current government agency and publically available benchmarks, the 
Equifax Ltd. UK gender pay gap is above the national average for the mean hourly 
rate, at 18.7%, and below the national average for the median hourly rate, at 15%. 
When looking at the profile of our people across different levels, it shows we have a 
relatively balanced gender profile at the lower and lower middle quartile of our 
organisation in respect of pay levels.

However, this profile becomes more skewed to men at the upper middle and top 
quartile pay levels in our business. This lower proportion of females at the more senior 
levels of our business is a key contributing factor in the gender pay and bonus pay 
results we see. This is not dissimilar to many other organisations within our sector, 
however this is not an excuse and we need to do more.

Based on current government agency 
and publically available benchmarks, 
the Equifax Ltd. UK gender pay gap 
is above the national average for the 
mean hourly rate, at 18.7%, and 
below the national average for the 
median hourly rate, at 15%.

We need to look at how we continue 
to develop our Talent and Succession 
planning practices, to provide the right 
opportunities for our best people to 
thrive and develop, to choose Equifax 
to follow their career aspirations and to 
reach senior level roles in our business.

Having a diverse leadership team is 
good for our organisation. It will help 
us to continue to attract and retain a 
wide range of talent into our organisation. It also ensures we reflect the clients and 
customers we support and ultimately leads to better business decisions being made, 
through diverse thoughts, ideas and perspectives. Research by McKinsey*, found that 
UK Companies in the top quartile for racial and ethnic diversity, were 35 percent more 
likely to have financial returns above their respective national industry medians.*

*Mckinsey Report 2016: https://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/delivering-through-diversity

Equifax UK Ltd - our bonus pay gap

We already have lots of activity 
already underway within Equifax. 
We promote fair treatment, respect 
and integrity in our work practices 
through our Code of Ethics and 
Conduct, which we are proud of. 

Our bonus gender pay gap is 22.5% based 
on median values, and by mean values it is 
37.3%, which is below the national mean of 
57%. Whilst this good news, we recognise 
that the mean bonus gender pay gap is 
nonetheless significant and steps must be 
taken to address it. 

This is primarily driven by a lower level of 
representation of females (at the snapshot 

date) in our senior level roles, which is contributing to these results and reinforces this as a key 
area to tackle, if we are to achieve our aspiration to eliminate our Gender Pay gaps.

So how do we intend to address some of the issues highlighted above?

Improving Gender Pay Gap

There are a number of existing activities we undertake across the business and others we will 
look to further develop over time, as set out further on in this summary, which will help contribute 
to reducing our Gender Pay gaps over the next few years. 

To address this, the organisation will make a concerted effort on existing and new initiatives. 
We can also work closely with other parts of our business, TDX Group, to share best practice, 
resources and opportunities to address our gender pay alignment.

We already have lots of activity already underway within Equifax. We promote fair treatment, 
respect and integrity in our work practices through our Code of Ethics and Conduct, which we 
are proud of. 

We have a variety of policies such as family friendly policies, including maternity, paternity and 
shared parental leave and flexible working (which we are looking for feedback to improve upon), 
that we hope provides all employees with flexibility.

We also encourage open and honest communication through our People Forum, which meets 
quarterly and is focused on the Engagement, Development and Wellbeing of our People.

Career Development and 
Succession Planning

We are proud of the policies we already have in place to encourage 
and facilitate ongoing learning and career development and talent 
management, including Career Week and Learning Champions. We will 

We are proud of the 
policies we already have 
in place to encourage and 
facilitate ongoing learning 
and career development

continue to leverage the development 
programmes of our parent organisation, 
including Leading at Equifax and Women 
in Leadership, as well as our Regional 
Future Shapers programme (of which 
women account for nearly 60%), to 
provide our future senior leaders with the 
support they need to succeed.

Approach to Pay and Governance

We have put in place systems to track how pay is managed within the 
annual pay review cycle and outside, in terms of promotions, salary 
requests and salary offers at recruitment stage. Our monitoring 
shows that our approaches are equitable, but we need to 
ensure we continue to review this. Our remuneration 
committees will have a specific remit to ensure we 
continue to monitor pay and progression decisions, 
so we know that such decisions are based on merit, 
people’s capabilities and performance.

In progression and future Actions:

•  Women’s network – Inclusion and Diversity. 

•  Graduate Programmes – 

We already have Networking forums for Women. We will look 
to review how effective these are in the current format and 
how they can support our desire for increased talent pools and 
opportunities to develop future leaders in our female population.

•   National Living Wage Foundation – 

we’ve committed to registering our business with the foundation, 
to reinforce our decision and commitment to paying the National 
Living Wage to our people and for suppliers of services to our 
business in the UK, to work towards this.

•   Women in Finance Charter – 

we plan to register for this industry leading initiative, to gain 
additional insight, knowledge and ideas on how we can adopt 
industry best practice in the development and progression of 
women into leadership roles.

•   Hiring managers 

will receive additional guidance on being mindful around 
‘Unconscious Bias’ and training workshops to support this.

•   Continue to refine our approach to pay and  
 

supporting pay policies, 
that provide a transparent, fair, consistent framework, but one 
that recognises contribution.

specifically aimed at key skills and knowledge within Analytical 
and Technology roles, which are key to our future resource 
needs and enable us to partner with local higher education 
establishments and demonstrate to a broader range of potential 
candidates, the opportunities we can offer in our business.

•  Succession Planning and Career Development. 

We will be enhancing our succession planning and talent 
mapping frameworks, through quarterly Talent check-ins with 
our Senior Leaders, to ensure we’re proactively managing Talent 
across all levels of our business, including :

o 
 
 
o 
 
 
o 
 

Ensuring future potential female leaders have the  
appropriate development opportunities, mentoring and  
support in progressing their careers at Equifax.

Talent and succession planning process, to ensure we  
track the retention of our key talent, including future  
potential female leaders.
Roll out training courses to our managers to help with 
unconscious bias.

 
 
 
 
 

•  Management Information – 

explore putting in place a suite of MI tools to track recruitment 
and salary decisions by diversity profiles which will provide the 
insight we need to manage diversity.

We are pleased about where we are and some of the work already taking 
place, but recognise that we have further to go. We want to champion 
diversity and inclusion and be a driver for change.

Explaining the Terms

*Quartile – A quartile in the case of gender pay reporting is all employees and salaries in the company in a long 
list from the highest salary to the lowest, and then split equally into quarters. The upper quartile being the top 25% 
highest earners, upper middle is the next 25% etc. 

**Mean – the mean and median are both types of average. For the purposes of gender pay reporting, the mean is 
all the male salaries added up and then divided by the number of men working in the organisation. You then do the 
same for female employees. An example would be: £22,000 + £28,000 + £35,000 + £40,000 + £59,000 ÷ 5 = the 
mean value is £36,800. 

***Median – the mean and median are both types of average. The median is the middle salary value when you have 
put them in value order from highest to lowest. For the purposes of gender pay reporting, the median is the middle 
salary when you line up all the male salaries in value order. You then do the same for female employees. An example 
would be: £22,000, £28,000, £35,000, £40,000, £59,000. The median value is £35,000. 

Sources: ONS Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2017; gender-pay-gap.service.gov.uk

