OPENBET LIMITED - GENDER PAY GAP 2017

The UK government has introduced legislation that requires employers with 250 or more employees to 
publish statutory calculations every year disclosing the pay gap between male and female employees.

OpenBet in 2017 at a glance:

The following analysis sets out the results of these calculations for OpenBet Ltd for the period ending 
April 2017. Additional data is included to provide context and further insight, together with information 
on what the Company is doing to close the Gender pay gap.

What is the Gender Pay Gap?
The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings between 
women and men. It is calculated by comparing the average hourly pay rate of all men in an organisation 
with the average hourly pay rate of all women.

It does not take into account differences in pay between men and women doing comparable jobs.

We confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equalty Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 – Doreena Ross, Chief HR Officer - Digital

%

%

The OpenBet Gender Pay Gap

The mean difference in hourly pay between male and female employees at OpenBet is 13.6%. 

Although there is clearly room for improvement, these figures compare favourably with averages across 
related sectors where companies have already reported. For example, data taken from Gov.uk, as of 22 
March 2018, report the overall mean pay gap within the within the Technology Sector is 15.1 %. Nationally, 
the mean gender pay gap was 17.4 per cent for full-time and part-time workers according to the UK’s 
Office for National Statistics annual survey of hours and earnings (2017) which covers all employers.

?

The OpenBet Gender Pay Gap Explained

Analysis across the most highly populated professional and technical groupings within the organisation 
clearly shows that for the majority of employees the pay gap is far narrower and in one case negative.

The primary cause of the overall pay gap is underrepresentation of women in the most senior and highly 
paid roles.

Mean pay gap

Median pay gap

Mean bonus gap

Median bonus gap

% of Women receiving a bonus

% of Men receiving a bonus

13.6%

5.9%

25.2%

21.6%

9.9%

11.0%

Group

% of 

Workforce

Mean Pay 

Gap

Entry / Intermediate

24%

-16%

Experienced 
Professional

Specialist / 1st level 
Manager

Senior Specialist / 
Manager

25%

8%

24%

4%

4%

0%

This may be in part due to the historically low number of females choosing to work in the sectors within which 
we operate. For example, as recently as 2016, fewer than 16% of IT graduates in the UK were women.

The data and figures are based on remuneration as at the  
Gender Pay Gap 2017 reporting date – 5 April 2017

The Bonus Pay Gap

Bonus entitlement at OpenBet is based on role and impact. Analysis shows that 11.0% of men and 9.9% of women received  
a bonus payment in the reporting period.

The mean bonus pay gap was 25.2% and the median bonus pay gap was 21.6%. The gap is a result of there being a greater proportion  
of men working in senior roles attracting higher bonus opportunities. 

Pay Quartiles

The graphic below shows the proportion of males and 
females that fall into each pay quartile. 

For context and comparison we have also shown the 
proportional gender split across entire workforce.

86.0%

82.6%

80.6%

73.9%

85.0%

Upper Quartile

3rd Quartile

2nd Quartile

Lower Quartile

Entire Population

Men                 Women

14.0%

17.4%

19.4%

26.1%

15.0%

Tackling the Gender Pay Gap

£



$

The OpenBet compensation philosophy is centred around market  
driven salary ranges which facilitate pay differentiation according to  
skill, competency and performance.

OpenBet is committed to equal opportunities and pay practices. 

Here are some of the initiatives we have in place to support this 
commitment:

Talent Acquisition Initiatives
l  Diversity awareness included as a core element of managers recruitment training
l  Introduced recruitment advertising wording to help encourage female applicants
l  Liaison with “Women who Code” group to promote OpenBet as an employer

Flexible Working Practices 
To accommodate family friendly lifestyles and promote work life balance - including
l  Flexible working hours for all employees 
l  Opportunities for flexible working 
l  Enhanced maternity benefits

Talent Planning Programme 

To ensure OpenBet identifies and develops all high potential employees regardless 
of gender, race, age or disability

