GENDER  
PAY GAP

10%  
(61 employees)

Gender Pay Gap – CF Fertilisers UK

CF Fertilisers UK reports gender  
pay gap better than national average
About CF Fertilisers UK
The UK’s leading manufacturer of nitrogen fertilisers, 
we provide British farmers with more than 1.5 million 
tonnes of premier fertiliser every year. 
We know that our people drive our success. The ideas, 
enthusiasm, dedication and determination of our team 
have made us the business we are today. A company 
that’s committed to doing things right, we make sure  
our employment decisions, including compensation,  
are based on skills, qualifications and job-related 
business criteria.

90%  
(527 employees)

Pay

Gender Split of Total Workforce  
(588 employees)

10.8%

10.8%

Measuring the Pay Gap
The UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation 
requires all companies with over 250 employees to report 
their gender pay gap. In our report, we share the median 
and mean average pay gaps (ordinary pay and bonuses) 
between our male and female employees.
While we strive to eliminate gender pay gaps altogether, 
CF Fertilisers UK is proud to report that our 2017  
average gender pay gap of 10.8% is far better than  
the UK national average (18.4%).

Understanding the Pay Gap
The Gender Pay Gap is defined as the difference 
between the mean or median hourly rate of pay that  
men and women receive. The mean pay gap is the 
difference between the average hourly earnings of 
men and women. The median pay gap is the difference 
between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly earnings  
of men and women. 
The data presented here has been taken from hourly 
rates of pay on 5th April 2017 and bonuses paid in the 
year to April 2017. We employed 592 people of whom  
588 employees were on full pay and 4 employees on  
less than full pay.

Male
Bonuses

Mean

Median

Female

21.4%

21.3%

Mean

Median

Male

Female

Bonus Pay Gap – CF Fertilisers UK
All of our permanent employees are eligible to receive  
a bonus award subject to the bonus scheme rules  
and depending on business and safety performance. 

The proportion of males and females receiving 
a bonus was influenced by either their start or 
termination dates falling on either side of the bonus 
payment date, or due to reasons of poor performance.

96.6%

90.2%

% of males who received a bonus
% of females who received a bonus

% of Males and Females by Pay Quartile – CF Fertilisers UK

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

7.5%

7.5%

7.5%

19.1%

92.5%

92.5%

92.5%

80.9%

Male

Female

Our Findings 
Like many businesses in the UK chemical sector,  
our manufacturing sites run on a 24-7 basis. Traditionally 
a higher proportion of men have entered our industry to 
fulfil shift patterns that attract paid allowances for working 
unsociable hours. At present we also have more men 
than women in senior leadership positions, and women 
are under represented in some specialist roles, such as 
engineering, which attract high levels of remuneration    
due to scarcity of skills. 
Diversity and Inclusion Drives  
Better Results
We believe our above average gender pay gap results 
come as a direct result of our continued focus on  
diversity and inclusion (D&I). Listed below are some  
of the D&I initiatives we have employed recently which 
have enabled us to attract high calibre talent and  
remain market competitive.
Our apprenticeship programme is the bedrock of 
our workforce and we are proud to say that a higher 
percentage of women have joined us through this  
scheme in recent years. We work closely with our 
technical training providers to ensure our recruitment, 
training, and assessment processes are aligned  
with our commitments to diversity and inclusion.

We engage with local schools and 6th form colleges 
to encourage more women to study STEM disciplines 
at university and consider embarking on careers in the 
chemicals industry. We also have a growing number of 
women occupying key leadership roles, have hired more 
female graduates and placed more women into work 
experience and summer internship placements.
Our pay policies and practices are also designed to be 
free from possible bias. We use third-party salary surveys 
to build market competitive pay structures for all jobs and 
administer base pay and bonuses based on individual,  
as well as business unit and overall company, performance.
We recruit from the widest possible talent pool and 
structure our recruitment advertising language and 
marketing so that it better connects with a more diverse 
audience. We delivered structured interviewing and 
unconscious bias training to our managers, and equal 
opportunities training to all employees, which underpins 
our proactive approach to diversity and closing the  
gender pay gap even further.

