UKTV GENDER PAY REPORT
UKTV GENDER PAY REPORT 2017

Inclusion and diversity
At UKTV, we want to be the inspiration of the media industry, through our great work and 
through the diverse and inclusive culture we’re building. Staying true to our values, we 
constantly challenge the way we do things to encourage greater diversity and to create an 
environment where people do the best work of their careers. We pride ourselves on hiring 
the very best people, regardless of background, gender or ethnicity. 

We’re really proud of what we’ve already achieved. 60% of our UKTV colleagues are women 
and women make up half of our leadership team.

Gender pay is di(cid:31)erent to equal pay
A gender pay gap is the di(cid:30)erence between the average pay of all men in an 
organisation and average pay of all women in an organisation – a collective 
comparison. This is not the same as equal pay.

Equal pay is the di(cid:30)erence in pay between a man and a woman performing an 
equivalent role within an organisation – an individual comparison. UKTV is an 
equal pay employer and pays fairly based on role and experience.

Our results
Our pay and bonus gaps reﬂect the imbalance of men and women we have in di(cid:30)erent job 
levels, particularly at lower levels, with women making up 73% of the ﬁrst quartile positions 
(see below). 

Our bonus gap is created by more women than men working part-time (76% of those 
working part-time and receiving a bonus were women) and some women taking maternity

leave, particularly those in senior roles. In both these situations, bonuses are pro-rated and 
therefore smaller than they would otherwise be.

Our gender pay gap numbers are exaggerated as we are a smaller company, just two over 
the reporting requirement. In larger organisations the impact is diluted as there is a larger 
number to measure the average across.

Pay quartiles 
(% of men and women in each pay quartile)

Q4 
(highest paid)
Q3

46%

40%

Q2

Q1 
(lowest paid)

47%

27%

Proportion of men and women  receiving a bonus

Pay and bonus

54%

60%

53%

73%

Women

16%

Men

13%

84%

87%

Di(cid:31)erence 
between men 
and women

Gender 
Pay Gap

Gender 
Bonus Gap

Median

Mean

12.4%

17.9%

16.3%

52%

Men

Women

Received a bonus

No bonus received

UKTV GENDER PAY REPORT
UKTV GENDER PAY REPORT 2017

Darren Childs, CEO, UKTV
“We are so proud to be successfully recruiting and promoting women at all levels in the organisation.
 
UKTV has pretty atypical numbers, because we balance out towards women at every level of the company. 
 
At the point of this report, women were responsible for 54% of our most senior roles, and 73% of our ﬁrst 
level roles. Over half our top quartile are women and last year 60% of those promoted at UKTV were 
women.
 
Our gap is created by more women than men in lower entry roles. Women on maternity leave or working 
part-time will also impact on our bonus ﬁgures.
 
We’ve done a lot of work at UKTV to create a diverse and inclusive culture and we are committed to 
continuing on this path. We have introduced unconscious bias training for all hiring managers and we 
have launched a working families group designed to support parents and carers, in particular, to encourage 
more men to take shared-parental leave and support women returning to work. 
 
We want to continue to attract the most diverse and talented people to UKTV, so we will be broadening 
the way we recruit by advertising our roles on new platforms and using gender neutral language in our 
job descriptions and job ads. We will also continue to support colleagues at every level to progress and thrive.
 
We operate in a meritocracy. UKTV is an equal pay employer and pays fairly based on role and 
experience. We value all talented individuals and recruit, appoint and promote no matter the background 
or gender.”

Darren Childs, CEO, UKTV    Claire Astley, HR Director, UKTV 

We conﬁrm that the information and data provided under our Legal Entities is accurate and in line with regulatory requirements.

