 SSP’s Gender Pay Gap Report 2017  

 

 

INTRODUCTION 

The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in the average pay of men and women – whatever their role – 
across an organisation.  It is different to equal pay, which directly compares men and women carrying out the 
same or similar work. 

By law, all companies in the UK with more than 250 employees are now required to report on gender pay.  Within 
SSP Group plc, this includes Select Service Partner UK Limited (SSP UK) and Rail Gourmet UK Limited (RG).  

To understand the gender pay gap, there are six key indicators on which companies are asked to report: the mean 
and median differences in hourly pay; mean and median differences in bonus pay; the proportion of male and 
female employees who received a bonus; and the proportion of male and female employees in each of the quartile 
pay bands. 

 

What’s included in our hourly pay? 

At SSP, hourly pay includes (but is not limited to) base pay, premium payments (e.g. unsociable hours) and travel 
allowances as applicable. Excluded are payments for redundancy and benefits-in-kind.  Employees on family or sick 
leave are also not included. 

What is the mean? 

The mean is the average of the numbers. It’s calculated by adding up all the numbers, and then dividing by how 
many numbers there are.  

What is the median? 

The median is the middle number. It’s calculated by listing all the numbers in numerical order and picking the one 
in the middle. 

 

On the pages that follow, we outline our gender pay gap findings. 

 

 

1 

 

WHAT IS OUR GENDER PAY GAP? 

Within SSP UK, 45% of our colleagues are male, and 55% are female. The difference in hourly pay between males 
and females is as follows: 

Mean 

8.7% 

Median  3.1% 

 

 

Within RG, 73% of our colleagues are male, and 27% are female. The difference in hourly pay between males and 
females is as follows: 

Mean 

6.4% 

Median  1.8% 

 

 

Understanding our gender pay gap 

For both SSP UK and RG, our gender gap is below the UK mean average of 17.4% and median average of 18.4% and 
the UK retail sector averages of 16.4% (mean) and 9.3% (median).1   

Having undertaken an analysis to understand the drivers behind this, we have determined three main 
contributors:  

1.  Management roles: Across our management roles, there are more men than women at higher 

management grades who are therefore receiving higher salaries 

2.  Hourly Paid roles: Around 85% of our UK colleagues are on an hourly wage contract with the majority at 

Team Member level. We currently employ more female than male Team Members. 

3.  Premium payments: Team Members working ‘unsociable’ hours, e.g. night shifts, are paid a premium for 

this. As a result, their hourly pay is higher compared to someone working day shifts. Within our Team 
Member population, a higher percentage of men than women choose to work ‘unsociable’ shifts. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 Based on estimates from ASHE Survey 2017 (Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings – Office for National Statistics) 

 

2 

WHAT IS OUR BONUS GAP? 

 

Across all SSP UK colleagues, 49% of females and 48% of males received a bonus. 

The difference in bonus payments between males and females is as follows: 

Mean 

41.4% 

Median  23.5% 

 

 

Across all RG colleagues, 55% of females and 33% of males received a bonus. 

The difference in bonus payments between males and females is as follows: 

Mean 

35.0% 

Median  31.1% 

 

 

Understanding our bonus gap 

At both SSP UK and RG, the bonuses awarded to our salaried colleagues are based on a percentage of their salary, 
so those with higher salaries also have a higher bonus potential.  The mean bonus payments are higher amongst 
our male salaried colleagues, because we have more males than females in more senior roles.  

Our hourly colleagues who are eligible for a bonus are incentivised by schemes that pay an additional amount per 
hour, so those working longer shifts will qualify for a larger aggregate bonus if they hit their targets. Due to the fact 
that on average our female hourly colleagues work fewer hours, with many preferring the flexibility this brings, 
their total bonus pot is less than that of a male colleague working longer shifts. 

In RG, significantly more females than males receive bonuses. However, the majority of the bonuses are received 
by hourly paid female colleagues as small commission- based payments (as a percentage of their on-board sales). 
On the other hand, the men receiving bonuses at RG are predominantly salaried colleagues, so their bonuses are 
higher. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

HOW IS OUR PAY DISTRIBUTED? 

The distribution of men and women is shown in pay quartiles which are calculated by splitting the whole workforce 
into four equal sized bands based on hourly pay, from highest to lowest. The percentage of men and women is 
calculated for each band.  

 

Pay quartiles for SSP UK 

Top Quartile  

Upper Middle Quartile  

Lower Middle Quartile  

Lower Quartile  

42% 

58% 

55% 

45% 

61% 

39% 

59% 

41% 

 

 

Pay quartiles for RG 

Females 

Males 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top Quartile  

Upper Middle Quartile  

Lower Middle Quartile  

Lower Quartile  

24% 

76% 

30% 

70% 

24% 

76% 

33% 

67% 

 

Females 
 

Males 

 

 

CONCLUSION 

We’re pleased our gender gap falls below the UK and retail sector averages, and we’re confident that we have 
identified and disclosed the main factors behind it. However, there is clearly still more to do to bridge the gap. 
Although we believe in recruiting the right people for the right job at the right salary, regardless of gender, we will 
be further exploring how we can better attract, engage and develop more women into senior management 
positions within the SSP Group. 

 

  
Rachel Howarth, Group HR Director 

 

4 

