redhat.com Red Hat strives to be a diverse and inclusive meritocracy where everyone has the opportunity to contribute. We believe that good ideas can come from anyone, anywhere, and that diversity fuels our culture by bringing in many perspectives and ideas, challeng-ing our assumptions, and inspiring innovation. Our approach to diversity and inclusion includes our goal of paying employees equitably for comparable roles, skills, and experience. One of the ways we enable this is by providing  managers with guidance to support objective, data-driven  reward decisions.As of April 2017, all companies in the U.K. with more than 250 employees are required to report statutory calculations showing their gender pay and bonus gaps. Red Hat welcomes these new requirements as an opportunity to highlight where we need to focus as we continue our efforts to build a diverse workforce.KEY FINDINGSUNADJUSTED PAY GAPUnadjusted pay gap, also referred to as a pay gap, shows how much two groups of people — in this case females and males — earn when compared to each other. It is calculated by taking female employees’ average salary and dividing by male employees’ average salary. This data often reflects differences in factors such as types of work and job level. We refer to the result of this calculation as the “unadjusted pay gap” because it does not control for comparable roles, skills, and experience. The mean pay1 gap is the difference between the average of males’ and females’ pay, and the median gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of males’ and females’ pay. These calculations are based on data for active employees as of April 5, 2017.UNADJUSTED PAY GAP PERCENTAGESMEAN (AVERAGE)MEDIAN (MIDDLE)26.9%32.5%ADJUSTED PAY GAPThe adjusted pay gap, also referred to as the pay equity gap, shows how people in comparable roles with comparable skills  and experience are paid. In order to understand whether our  pay gap data also reflects pay equity differences, we worked  with a third party to conduct a statistical analysis of pay for  U.K. employees, controlling for factors such as role type (sales  or non-sales, for example), job level (management or individual contributor), location, and experience. The result of this analy-sis indicates that our mean and median pay gaps are largely explained by the different types of roles females and males are in rather than differences in compensation when controlling for factors such as those mentioned above. In the “How will we  make a difference section?” below we go into some of the  actions we’re currently taking to support gender diversity  across all levels and roles within our organization.PAY QUARTILESPay quartile2 data shows how two groups of people — in this case males and females — are distributed when sorted from lowest to highest paid and then compared to each other. This data is then broken into quartiles and generally reflects the different types of roles females and males are in. We’ve already shared how males and females are distributed throughout our global workforce3, and are committed to continuing to foster diversity at all levels and across all functions within Red Hat.PAY QUARTILE PERCENTAGESQUARTILEFEMALESMALESUpper11.6%88.4%Upper middle16.1%83.9%Lower middle28.6%71.4%Lower47.3%52.7% 1 Pay refers to ordinary pay (basic pay, allowances, pay for piecework,  pay for leave, and shift premium pay) converted to an hourly rate.  2 Pay quartile data is calculated using ordinary pay  converted to an hourly rate. 3 Global data, as of February 2017, can be found at  https://www.redhat.com/en/jobs/life/diversity. UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017BONUS PAY GAP

The mean bonus4 gap is the difference between the average of 
males’ and females’ bonuses paid, and the median gap is the 
difference between the midpoints in the ranges of males’ and 
females’ bonuses paid. Similar to our pay gap and pay quartile 
data, these outcomes are heavily influenced by the types of  
roles males and females are in.

BONUS PAY GAP PERCENTAGES

HOW WILL WE MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
Red Hat is committed to equitable pay and equal opportunities 
for all employees as we aspire to be a diverse and inclusive  
meritocracy. The following are some of the activities we are 
engaging in that support gender pay and pay equity.

• Promoting visibility of, and support for, diverse talent inside 
Red Hat through Diversity and Inclusion (D+I) communities, 
including a global Women’s Leadership Community

MEAN

52.6%

MEDIAN

40.0%

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING A BONUS

This data is simply a calculation of the percentage of employees 
who receive a bonus. We researched the differences between 
males and females receiving bonuses and determined that they 
were primarily driven by the timing of when males and females 
joined or left Red Hat.

BONUS PERCENTAGES

Percentage receiving  
bonus payment

Percentage NOT receiving 
bonus payment

FEMALES

MALES

92%

8%

95%

5%

• Promoting opportunities in accelerated development programs 

for participants from diverse backgrounds

• Operating a recruiting and hiring process that recognizes the 

value of a diverse workforce 

• Building more inclusive team environments using research-

backed tools and resources

• Providing managers with training on how to avoid unintended 

bias in performance and development processes, including 
salary and promotion decisions

• Training managers on how to provide meaningful and action-

able feedback for career development to all employees

• Supporting programs that introduce contributors from  

historically underrepresented backgrounds to open source 

• Promoting inclusive team dynamics to foster an environment 

where employees feel they can contribute perspectives and 
ideas and can do their best work

DECLARATION
We confirm that our data has been calculated in accordance  
to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) regulations 2017.

Michael O’Neill, Senior Director Finance  
and Director of Red Hat UK Limited

DeLisa Alexander, EVP and Chief People Officer

 4  Bonus includes pay related to proﬁt sharing, productivity, performance, 

incentives, or commissions paid and received from April 6, 2016 to  
April 5, 2017.

redhat.com 
#965800_180329a

Copyright © 2018 Red Hat, Inc. Red Hat and the Shadowman logo are trademarks or  
registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and other countries.

