Gender 
Pay 
Report
2017

Our commitment to equality
Our family business is committed to being an employer of choice, 
with a guiding principle of an equitable, egalitarian and inclusive 
approach to reward. We’re committed to equal pay and welcome the 
introduction of gender pay gap reporting to encourage businesses to 
review and develop their processes for ensuring equality. 

At Bettys & Taylors we employ just over 1,400 people in a diverse range of roles 
covering retail, catering, craft baking, manufacturing and support functions. 
Our workforce is 42% male and 58% female, with a strong gender balance 
across senior levels of the organisation. Our pay rates are based on job role and 
reviewed using a robust methodology including benchmarking data.  
We know that our gender pay gap is not an equal pay issue and our analysis 
confirms that men and women are paid fairly for the same job. Our gender 
pay gap is driven by the demographics of our business, particularly the high 
proportion of women in Bettys front-line operational roles.  

What is a Gender Pay Gap?
A gender pay gap is a measure of the difference in average pay of men and 
women across a business. It’s different to an equal pay comparison which 
would involve direct comparison of two people or groups of people carrying out 
the same work. Businesses are required to report on six different gender pay 
figures:
1.  The mean (or arithmetic average) gender pay gap. This is calculated 
by adding all female employees’ hourly rates of pay together and dividing 
by the total number of women, and adding all male employees’ hourly 
rates of pay together and dividing by the total number of men. The mean 
pay gap is then calculated as the average male rate minus the average 
female rate divided by the average male rate.

2.  The median gender pay gap. The median is the mid-point when the 
hourly rates of pay of all employees are ordered from highest to lowest, 
or vice versa. The median pay gap is then calculated as the median male 
rate minus the median female rate divided by the median male rate. 
3.  A breakdown of workforce earning distribution by quartile. The 
Lower Quartile contains the 25% lowest hourly rates of pay and Upper 
Quartile includes the 25% highest hourly rates of pay. This provides an 
overview of earning distribution between men and women across the 
company.

4.  The percentage of women and men receiving bonuses.
5.  The mean gender bonus gap.
6.  The median gender bonus gap. 

Continued overleaf

Gender 

Pay 
Report
2017

Both mean and median gender bonus gaps are based on actual bonus 
received in the last year, rather than on hourly rates of pay.
Every relevant business must provide the same data working to the same 
methodology allowing comparisons between different employers. 

Our Gender Pay Performance

Bettys & Taylors Gender Pay Gap
UK National Average*
Bettys & Taylors Gender Pay Bonus Gap

Bettys
MEAN 
Gender Pay Gap
8.6%

Taylors
MEAN 
Gender Pay Gap
-3.2%

MEAN 
Gender Pay Gap
18.9%
17.4%
32.5%

MEDIAN 
Gender Pay Gap
16%
18.4%
37%

Percentage of employees who 
received a bonus

94.5%

97.1%

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile

Upper  
Quartile

Upper Middle  

Quartile

Lower Middle  

Quartile

Lower  
Quartile

48.0%

52.0%

40.4%

59.6%

65.8%

34.2%

75.6%

24.4%

All data was based on a snapshot date 
of 5th April 2017

*UK National Average data sourced from the 
Office for National Statistics

8.8%

Mean Gender Pay Gap per quartile
-1.9%
1.9%

-0.9%

What’s behind our Gender Pay Gap?
Gender pay differences can be down to a number of factors and don’t 
necessarily mean equal pay issues. Our analysis of comparable roles shows 
we reward men and women fairly for the same job. Our gap is caused by the 
demographics of our business. This includes:

•  A higher proportion of women (74%) than men (26%) in operational roles in 

Bettys.

•  A smaller proportion of women (16%) than men (84%) in production roles 

in Taylors.

•  More men than women receiving shift premiums where they’ve chosen to 

take shift-based roles.

Gender 

Pay 
Report
2017

*Data sourced from the Office for 
National Statistics

We’ve identified that when we review the gap between men and women 
in similar jobs it narrows to just a few percent. If Bettys was a stand-alone 
business the mean pay gap would be 8.6% (i.e. men in Bettys earn, on average, 
8.6% more than women), and if Taylors was a standalone business the mean 
gap would be -3.2% (i.e. women in Taylors earn, on average, 3.2% more than 
men). These compare with a retail industry mean gender pay gap of 16.4% and 
a manufacturing industry mean gender pay gap of 16.5%*.
This illustrates the fact that the gap, for us, isn’t about how we pay our people, 
but is part of a general societal trend where different roles are often held by 
different genders. The fact that Betty employs a larger number of people (973 
at the point we collated data, compared with 402 at Taylors), with the large 
proportion of them women, impacts on our Group-wide gender pay gap figure.
Everyone working in our business plays a part in our success and we believe 
we should all share in our prosperity. All our people are eligible for our Group 
Prosperity Scheme bonus – a profit-sharing scheme, paid each quarter, at the 
same percentage of salary. The small number of employees who didn’t receive 
the bonus – 2.9% of males and 5.5% of females – largely represents recently 
hired employees who had not yet received a bonus payment at the date we 
took the snapshot of data (April 2017). 
In line with the reporting requirements, the bonus gap figures are calculated by 
actual payments, rather than full-time equivalent. As such our gender bonus 
gap figures are higher than the mean and median pay gap levels due to a larger 
number of women working part-time. 

What are we doing about it?
Calculating and analysing our gender pay gap figures has given us a greater 
understanding of the demographics of our business, as well as the societal 
and cultural trends behind our gender pay gap. This information is now driving 
thinking within our business, such as how we can attract more women into 
areas where they are under-represented, including manufacturing operational 
and/or shift-based roles, and men into retail, catering and hospitality. 
These are not easy themes to address and change will not happen quickly. 
However, we’ll be working to understand what we can do including learning 
from businesses in similar sectors. 
As a business, we’re committed to understanding and working to reduce our 
gender pay gap where we can.

I confirm that these figures have been 
reviewed by our Group Board and that 
we’re committed to equal pay and will 
continue to use the annual Gender Pay 
Report as an opportunity to review our 
performance and practices.

Paul Cogan
Group Finance and Resources Director
16th March 2018

