 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

In 2018 for the first time UK companies with over 250 employees must report on their gender 
pay gap.  
 
At  QUIZ,  we  are  committed  to  treating  everyone  fairly  and  ensuring  that  everyone  –  no 
matter  what  their  background,  race,  ethnicity  or  gender  –  has  the  same  opportunities  to 
progress, develop and enjoy a rewarding career. In our data, we have found no inconsistency 
between how we pay men and women for the same role but there is a pay gap driven by the 
structure of our workforce.  

 

HOURLY PAY GAP  

 
We have compared the average pay of all the women we employ with the average pay for all 
the  men  (for  both  mean  and  median  calculations). This  is  calculated  amongst  all  of  QUIZ’s 
employees in England, Scotland and Wales1. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1  QUIZ  comprises  of  three  trading  companies;  Kast  Retail  Limited  (stores),  Tarak  Retail  Limited  (concessions)  and  Tarak  International 
Limited (web and international sales).  Of these companies Kast Retail Limited and Tarak Retail Limited have more than 250 employees and 
are required to report upon their gender pay information.  This report comprises information on the three trading companies combined. 
 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

UNDERSTANDING OUR GAP  

Our  workforce  is  overwhelmingly  female.    QUIZ 
employed 1,986  people  during the year, 1,899 or  96% 
were female.  Of these employees, 92% worked in stores 
or concessions, and of these staff 99% are female. 
 
Whilst  we  treat  all  applicants  equally, as  a  fast  fashion 
womenswear  brand,  we  have  found  that  largely  we 
attract  female  applicants  to  work  in  our  stores.    In 
addition, many of our roles in-store are part time and 
we believe that these working patterns have tended to 
have greater appeal to female applicants.  Most of these 
roles are sales advisor positions which are lower paid 
than  the  head  office  or  warehouse  roles  where  pay 
rates  are  generally  higher  and  we  have  a  greater 
proportion of men employed.  
 
Of  the  87  men  employed  during  the  year,  77  were 
engaged at head office or at our warehouse. 
 
Our gender pay gap is attributable to these factors.   
 
If stores and concessions are reviewed separately, our 
gender  pay  gap  is  much  less.    When  head  office  and 
warehouse  employees  are  excluded 
the 
calculations  the  mean  gender  pay  gap  is  reduced  to 
5.7%.  
 

from 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

 

 

PAY QUARTILES 

Our pay quartiles are shown below: 

% of Men and Women in Each Pay Quartile

Top Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Top Quartile

Men

Women

0.4

99.6

0.8

99.2

7.3

92.7

11.3

88.7

 

GENDER BONUS GAP  

The high proportion of women in store roles also drives our gender bonus gap. 

 

 

 

 
We  also  note  the  significant  mean  bonus  gap  and  attribute  this  to  the  greater  number  of 
performance-related  bonus  payments  achieved  by  men.    This  is  reflective  of  there  being 
relatively more men than women occupying roles at the head office and warehouse which are 
areas where a higher proportion of employees receive bonuses.  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

OUR COMMITMENT TO EQUALITY  

 
We  are  confident  that  our  gender  pay  gap  is  not  caused  by  men  and  women  being  paid 
differently and we have the mechanisms in place ensure that men and women who are doing 
the same jobs, or work of the same value, are paid the same.  All of our employment policies 
and practices consider pay and bonuses according to the role and the effectiveness of the job 
done and never by gender.  Annual pay changes are applied equally across roles. 

 

CLOSING THE GAP 

 
We  are  committed  to  reducing  our  gender  pay  gap  and  will  continue  to  support  the 
development of all our colleagues and in particular our talented female colleagues into Senior 
Management roles.  We are a creative and dynamic business, and we will relentlessly support 
women and men to develop to the best of their potential.  
 
We stand by the fact that there are no male or female roles, only people and their individual 
capabilities.  
 
To do this, we will focus on the following areas to help address the gap:  
 

•  Have an inclusive culture where there are opportunities for all to progress: 
•  Ensure new roles at head office and senior roles are advertised and available to all 

colleagues to apply for using our internal communications; 

•  Offer  training  and  development  opportunities  to  encourage  and  attract  store 

colleagues to apply for corporate roles within the company; and  

•  Encourage flexible working practices where possible to encourage a more inclusive 

culture. 

 
We recognise that reducing the gender pay gap at QUIZ and across our industry will require 
cultural change and time. However, we are committed to reducing this gap and we will continue 
to focus on women having the same opportunities for senior roles as men and build on each 
person’s  strengths  and  skills  in  order  that  they  can  achieve  their  full  potential  and  enjoy  a 
rewarding and inspiring career here at QUIZ.   

 

I can confirm that the information within this report is accurate. 

 

 

 

 
Tarak Ramzan 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 

 
 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

