 

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

2017 

PROTEC FIRE DETECTION PLC  Protec House Churchill Way Nelson Lancashire BB9 6RT  

Zoe Richardson HR Manager 

Introduction 

Protec Fire Detection Ltd is the UK’s largest independent Fire Detection & Security manufacturer. With over six 

decades of experience, we provide innovative products and superior services, to exceed our Clients ever more 

demanding expectations. From formation in 1968, and celebrating 50 years this year, our reputation has been built 

on solid and reliable systems meeting the needs of a wide variety of applications. 

This report details the gender pay gap reporting requirements as required under “The Equality Act 2010 (Gender 

Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  The regulations state that companies with more than 250 employees are 

required to publish information on their gender pay gap.  A Gender pay  gap  focuses  on  the overall  percentage 

difference in the average pay between men and women over a period of time. This is not to be confused with 

equal pay which assesses pay differences between men and women who perform in the same or similar roles. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

Reporting Requirements 

The regulations require percentage reporting on pay and bonuses as follows 

-  Mean (average) gross hourly rate of pay 

-  Median gross hourly rate of pay 

- 

Proportion of male/female in hourly rate of pay quartiles  

-  Mean bonus pay 

-  Median bonus pay  

- 

Proportion of male/female in receipt of bonuses, in the 12 months before the snap shot date of the 5th 

April 2017  

Our Key Findings 

Employees at snapshot date  

 

815 

Gender Balance  

  

 

 

 
           20%       80% 

 

 

Base Pay  

 

Mean  

Median 

 

 

 

 

 

% gap 

32.08 % 

33.65 % 

 

2 

Male 

94.60% 

95.09% 

81.86% 

48.76% 

Female 

5.39% 

4.90% 

18.13% 

51.23% 

% Gap 

78.27% 

38.26% 

Quartiles  

 

Upper Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile  

Bonus  

 

Mean  

Median 

% in receipt of bonus  

 

9.25% 

    20.21% 

Analysis of findings 

As our gender pay gap reports, we have fewer females employed across the company at present which is typical 

of  the  construction  and  engineering  industry  as  the  roles  are  generally  more  male  orientated  and  attract  fewer 

women.  Despite there being a number of women in senior roles within the group, as is quite typical the majority of 

women employed in the company are working in non-technical roles or support roles which are generally paid at a 

lower rate than the higher technical roles which are dominated by males. Whilst our report shows a large gap our 

findings clearly indicate that there are no equal pay issues and both male and females are paid the same rates for 

carrying out same or similar roles.  

The impact of gender distribution and the type of roles  currently held by males and females also impact on the 

bonus pay gap.  Those eligible to receive higher bonus payments tend to be males occupying senior management 

roles with longevity of service or senior director roles and this is shown in the mean percentage gap.   

It is not unexpected that we have a gender pay gap but what is important is how we address this going forwards.  

Improving our gender balance and closing the gap is going to be a challenge in what is historically a male dominated 

industry.    

 

 

 

3 

What we need to do 

As a business we need to attract more women to work in the industry and to ensure our recruitment process and 

flexible working policies are designed to encourage more applications from women.   

Our  recruitment  strategy  is  to  tackle  the  underrepresentation  of  women  in  engineering  roles  and  we  intend  to 

continue with our corporate social responsibility activities which will include supporting STEM events and women 

in engineering events. We believe that these events help raise the profile of the industry and we want to encourage 

more  women  to  consider  engineering  as  a  career  choice.  In  particular  we  intend  to  focus  our  apprenticeship 

recruitment in order to attract more females to our technical and engineering roles, this may include using different 

language  in  our  job  adverts  as  well  as  ensuring  all  female  applicants  are  offered  an  interview  subject  to  them 

meeting the minimum recruitment requirements.  We will work closely with our local colleges in order to show our 

commitment to developing more women in the industry in the hope that the stereotypical image of only males in 

engineering is dispelled.  

We also wish to place increased focus on succession planning in order to increase development opportunities for 

our existing staff, in particular for women who may wish to change career and ensure we provide enough support 

to allow women to progress into higher paid and more technical roles.  

Summary 

Whilst  gender  reporting is  a legislative  requirement  we  are  committed  as  a  business  to  take  positive  steps  into 

addressing our gender pay gap and see this as a positive opportunity for our employees for the following reasons:-  

- 

It will help us monitor pay and progression more closely to ensure that employees regardless of gender 

are supported to reach their full potential 

- 

It will confirm to existing employees and new recruits that we are committed to building an inclusive and 

diverse workforce that provides equal opportunity to all employees regardless of their gender 

- 

It demonstrates an opportunity to show our clients and customers that we are a fair and ethical employer 

These objectives are long term goals but we hope that we will make incremental progress each year in order to 

achieve a more equally represented workforce.  

 

4 

