 

 
Machine Mart Ltd Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
 
Gender  Pay  Gap  legislation  requires  an  employer  with  250  employees  or  more  to 
publish their gender pay gap for all their employees.   
 
This  means  that  we  look  at  pay  across  our  whole  organisation  and  compare  the 
average rates for men and women. 
 
This is different to equal pay comparison, which looks at paying the same pay to men 
and women who carry out the same or similar job.  
 
 
Our results 
 
The information we have used to calculate our gender pay gap is based on the hourly 
rates of pay on the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.  
 
The table below shows the difference between men and women’s pay.  Women’s rates 
are:  
 

Mean (average)  
 
Median (mid-point)    
 
 
The proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment is detailed below:  

 
 

Gender Pay Gap  Bonus Pay Gap 
0.9% higher   
13.1% higher  

87.1% lower 
94.9% lower 

 
 

 
 

Males

 
4%

Females

5%

 

96%

95%

Received a
bonus

Did not
receive a
bonus

 
This table show the proportion of men and women in each quarter of our payroll: 
 

 

 
Lower quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Upper quartile 

Men 

100.0% 
86.5% 
86.5% 
88.5% 

Women 

0.0% 
13.5% 
13.5% 
11.5% 

What does this mean? 
 
This shows that on average women are paid 0.9% higher than their male colleagues 
and that the payment of bonuses is gender neutral.  
 
In all areas of the business we employ more males than we do females.  We believe 
that the retail positions are particularly attractive to men due to the type of products 
we sell and this is predominantly down to the nature of our business.    
 
Where bonuses are received, on average women are paid 87.1% less than their male 
colleagues.  We believe that this is because our retail colleagues, the majority of who 
are male (66.4%) receive bonus payments due to the structure and targets set out in 
their commission scheme vs. Head office colleagues who are not on a commission 
based  structure.    We  also  recognise  that  we  have  more  senior  male  colleagues  in 
higher paid roles which attract the larger bonus payments.  
 
For the future, the Company is focused on both ensuring that the positive gender pay 
gap outcome is not taken for granted by further reviewing and improving the pay gap 
in individual areas of the business. 
 
I  can  confirm  all  the  data  in  this  report  is  accurate  and  has  been  produced  in 
accordance with the regulations. 
 
 
Vimal Bhimani 
Director 
 
 
 
 
 

