Gender Pay Gap Statement
2017

From April 2017, all organisations that employ over 250 employees are required to report 
annually on their gender pay gap, demonstrating the difference in average female earnings 
compared to average male earnings. For charities, including Scottish Autism this must be 
published by 4th April each year, and within one year of the ‘snapshot’ data being taken. 
Scottish Autism took its ‘snapshot’ data on 5th April 2017. 

Please note gender pay gap is different from equal pay: 

Equal pay is awarding men and women the same amount to do identical or equivalent 
work. This is a legal requirement in the UK and has been for many years 

Gender pay gap is the difference between average earnings for men and women. If 
women are being paid more, that's called a negative pay gap. 

The report is required to publish data on: 

the mean and median salary pay gap
the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile  
the pay gap between males and females for staff who receive bonus payments. As no 
employees in Scottish Autism currently receive bonus payments, no bonus data is 
provided 

Scottish Autism Data

Difference in mean pay:                  - 0.9% 
Difference in median pay:                  0.2% 
Mean Bonus gender pay gap:            N/A 
Median Bonus gender pay gap:         N/A 
Percentage who receive a bonus:      N/A 

Salary Quartiles             % Female                % Male

Lower quartile                       71%                      29% 
Lower middle quartile           72.9%                   27.1% 
Upper middle quartile           66.2%                   33.8% 
Upper quartile                       76%                      24% 

Total
                                              72%                      28% 

Summary to Explain Scottish Autism's Gender Pay Gap

The gender pay gap for Scottish Autism gives a very positive insight into the equality of pay 
with the organisation. The figures indicate that females have a marginal advantage, with a 
-0.9% difference in mean gender pay, which compares favourably to the national figure of 
17.3% (source: Office of National Statistics Q3 2017). Similarly, Scottish Autism has a median 
gender pay gap of 0.2%, which is significantly lower than national figure of 18.1% (source: 
Office of National Statistics Q3 2017).  

The majority of our staff are employed in care and support related roles, and this is reflected in 
our overall workforce make up, which is 72% female and 28% male. The quartile figures 
demonstrate that male and females are evenly distributed across all quartiles, with more 
women than men across all quartiles. This could be explained due to the sector we are in. 
Female representation is slightly higher in the upper quartile than in the others, which has 
resulted in the narrow gender pay gap for Scottish Autism. 

Scottish Autism has a robust Job Evaluation process, which groups jobs in equal value into 
grades, and guarantees that each grade receives the same. This ensures our employees, men 
and women, are paid the same amount when performing equal work. 

Scottish Autism is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion and complies with the Equality 
Act, 2010. We actively encourage applications from all sectors of the community and appoint 
people to roles based on merit regardless of age, race, gender, marital status, sexual 
orientation, disability, religion or belief.   

Sharon Stewart 
Director of Human Resources 

Company Limited by Guarantee. Registered in Scotland No. 81123. Registered Office: Hilton House, Alloa Business 
Park, Whins Road, Alloa, FK10 3SA. Scottish Autism is a charity registered in Scotland, No. SC 009068

