 

Gender Pay Gap Report - 31 March 2017  

 

 

Introduction 
From 2017 any organisation that employs 250 or more must publish and report specific data about  
their gender pay gap.  The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men  
and women, expressed relative to men’s earnings.  

All public sector employers are required to publish their gender pay gap information by 30 March 2018 
each year based on a snap shot date of the previous 31 March.   

The gender pay gap is not to be confused with equal pay which is the right for men and women to be 
paid the same rate when doing the same or equivalent work.  

This report will form part of the Council’s wider equality and diversity agenda. The Council aims to 
ensure that people are treated fairly and in accordance with the Equality Act 2010. The Equality and  
Diversity Steering Group (E&DSG) will monitor the data in this report to assist in ensuring the fair and 
consistent application of the Council’s Policies and Procedures.  

About Rutland and gender pay 

The Council pays the same salary to roles of equal 
value regardless of gender or any other personal 
characteristics.  

This is embedded in our job evaluation systems 
when it comes to determining grades and  
associated salary. 

Across the Council 75% of our workforce are  
female so it is not surprising to see that there are 
a higher number of females in most of our grades. 

 

  67.5% of our workforce are in grades Scale 1 
to Scale 6 (and equivalent) (front line service 
and support) - of which 81% are female 

  66.5% of female staff in grades from S01  

to Head of Service which includes technical, 
specialist and management roles 

  Rutland, of course, has a female Chief  

Executive.  Out of our Senior Management 
team of 7 posts, 2 are female  

 

Nationally, Local Government employs over 1.5  
million people – 78% of these are female. At Rutland 
County Council, there were 475 staff working and in 
scope of this data analysis as at 31 March 2017. Our 
employee profile at that time Was: 

 

 

 75% FEMALE 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    25% MALE 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Working time workforce demographic 
The above profile has been a static position at Rutland for 
some time.   

One Council, working together for Rutland... 

Rutland County Council—Gender Pay Gap Report 31 March 2017 

The data requirement 
The data set out in this report has been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.    

The three relevant reporting requirements for the Council are identified below:  

Overall gender pay gap based on 
mean hourly pay 

Overall gender pay gap based on 
median hourly pay – 

Proportions of male and female 
employees in quartile hourly pay 
bands – 

 

This involves adding up all of the numbers and dividing the result by how many 
numbers are in the list.  
 
This involves listing all of the numbers in numerical order. If there is an odd number 
of results, the median average is the middle number. If there is an even number of 
results, the median will be the mean of the two central numbers. 
 
This is to show the proportions of male and female full-pay relevant  
employees in four quartile pay bands. It is done by dividing the workforce into four 
equal parts. This involves ranking all the male and female full-pay relevant employ-
ees from the lowest hourly rate of pay to the highest hourly pay rate.  

The Mandatory Gender Pay Gap Reporting also includes the requirement to publish the difference  
between mean and median bonus payments paid to men and women. This is not applicable to the Council 
because no bonus payments are made. 

 

Rutland Gender Pay Gap 

Rutland Quartile Pay 

Overall Median Pay Gap 

 

Female 

Male 

  
Female 

  
Male 

  
Pay Gap 

  
Whole Economy #  

Median Hourly Pay 

£11.62 

£13.25 

12.3% 

18.4% 

Overall Mean Pay Gap 
Rutland County Council 

  
Female 

Male 

Pay Gap 

Whole Economy #  

Mean Hourly Pay 
£12.75  

£14.86  

14.2%  

17.4% 

 

 

#  Source = ONS Annual survey of Hours and Earnings 
October 2016 

Full sets of comparator data are not yet available for 
benchmarking in Year 1 as at the time of the  
publication of this report.   

One Council, working together for Rutland... 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lower Pay  
quartile (1) 

Lower Middle pay 
quartile (2) 

Upper Middle pay 
quartile (3) 

Upper Pay  
quartile (4) 

76% 

24% 

80% 

20% 

79% 

21% 

65% 

35% 

This table identifies the proportion of male and female 
full-pay relevant employees in each of our four pay 
bands (referred to as quartiles).   

These range from the lowest payment band (Quartile 
1—Lower Pay) to the highest payment band (Quartile 
4—Upper Pay). 

Rutland County Council—Gender Pay Gap Report 31 March 2017 

Background 
We know that the Council’s workforce is  
predominantly female, made up of 75% female 
and 25% male—this explains why there is a higher  
percentage of females across all pay quartiles. 
This is similar to other counties in our region.  

A much higher proportion of women (compared 
to men) work part-time—in Rutland just under 
45% of staff are part-time.  

We provide a range of training through e-learning 
which enables greater access and availability  
for staff. 

Flexible working arrangements are available to 
help both men and women balance domestic and 
work/career commitments in a way which works 
for them and Rutland.  

Rutland Council actively encourages a healthy 
work life balance and promotes a flexible  
approach to work to accommodate this—this is 
indicated in the high level of part-time working in 
the Council. 

Gender Pay Gap Assessment 
The overall gender pay gap at Rutland County 
Council is significantly lower than the national  
average.   

However, it is important to stress that when we 
talk about gender pay gap in Rutland it is not 
about men and women being paid differently for 
the same job.   

All posts at Rutland County Council are evaluated 
with the aid of a job evaluation system so people 
doing the job of the same value receive the same 
band of pay.  

The data within this report underlines the large 
variance we have in our gender make-up across 
the organisation—hence the proportionate  
difference in average pay.  

Rutland has an established approach  
to develop and manage its workforce 
and ensure we have the right skills and 
capabilities to deliver services over the 

Next Steps 
Going forward, the Council is committed to  
undertaking the following in relation to workforce 
development and employee pay: 

  Continue existing good practice to take a fair 
and consistent approach to pay and grading 
through robust job evaluation. 

  Review our Workforce Development Strategy 

in 2018 together with the outcomes of the 
Staff Engagement Survey. 

  Continue to develop our reporting, and  

monitoring, of the recruitment process for all 
equality implications to ensure there is no indi-
cation of bias. 

  Continue to develop our workforce/equality 
reporting across functions/types of roles to 
better understand our gender profile at a 
deeper level. 

  Continue to audit equal pay.   

  Continue to publish and promote that 

Rutland Council is committed to treating  
everyone fairly, to challenge inequalities and 
to promote equality of opportunity for all.  

Staff Engagement Survey  2017 
The Council’s latest staff engagement survey was 
carried out in 2017 and identified the following: 

 
  70% of staff receive the training they need to 

do their job 

  74% of staff feel they have opportunities 

within the Council 

 

 

Just under70% of staff feel there are equal  
opportunities for staff 

Just under 70% of staff are satisfied with  
opportunities for flexible working 

  We have improved since 2015 in how we  

manage our ‘internal talent’ 

 
Our overall  rate of employee satisfaction was up 
3% when compared to the 2015 staff survey. 

short, medium and long term. 

 

One Council, working together for Rutland... 

