 

 

 

Gender Pay Reporting 2017 

 
 
Boston  College  is  a  small-to-medium  sized  General  Further  Education  college  offering 
provision in all sector subject areas.  We have around 1,650 16-18 year old learners, 500 
apprentices, 6000 adult enrolments, 150 HE learners and 50 international full-time learners. 
The  College  has  four  premises  in  Boston  including  the  main  campus  with  residential 
accommodation,  a  Higher  Education  and  Sixth  Form  Centre  on  site,  a  Sports  Centre, 
Performing Arts Centre, a site in Spalding, and we have recently secured a provisional skills 
capital allocation to build a new Engineering, Manufacturing and Technology Centre due for 
completion in 2019.  

The College provides a broad and responsive curriculum offer aligned to local needs as well 
as  regional  and  national  priorities.  The  college  offers  outstanding  opportunities  for 
educational  and  social  inclusion,  serving  a  predominantly  rural  community  and  providing 
outreach services both through direct provision in main centres of population outside Boston 
and collaboration with partner organisations within the wider community. 

1.  Introduction and Legislation 

The purpose of gender pay reporting is to show the difference between the average 
earnings of men and women.  
 
Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 
the College has a legal duty to report on gender pay.  
 
Schedule 2 of the aforementioned regulations detail that “the governing body” of an 
institution in England within the further education sector (within the meaning of section 
91(3) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 c) are legally required to publish 
such information.  
 
Under the regulations there are six calculations that the College are required to report 
on. These are:  
 

• Average gender pay gap as a mean average  
• Average gender pay gap as a median average  
• Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average  
• Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average  
• Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of  
  females receiving a bonus payment  
• Proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered  
  from lowest to highest pay  

The College has a supportive culture with positive values for equality and inclusion for 
all.  We will ensure that gender equality is a central strand of our Equality, Diversity 
and Inclusion Strategy.    
 

 

 

 

 
2. What is a gender pay gap?  
 

 

 

Gender  pay gap  differs from  equal  pay. Whilst  equal  pay  deals  with the differences 
between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal 
value, gender pay gap shows the differences in the average pay between men and 
women.  

According to the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) which is based on a 
1% sample of jobs taken from the HMRC PAYE records, in 2015 the median gender 
pay gap within the Education sector was 25.3% and in 2016 stood at 26.7% (Source: 
Office of National Statistics website).  
 

 
3. Scope of Report  
 

The  data  for  this  exercise  has  been  taken  from  March’s  payroll  which  includes  the 
snapshot date of 31 March 2017 at which point we had 465 employees on the payroll. 
The breakdown of the employees showed 307 employees were female  (66%) and 158 
were male (34%) 

The  data  includes  all  employees  who  are  paid  on  a  substantive  or  fixed  term  basis 
whether having set contracted hours or variable hour’s contracts.  

The data includes basic pay and overtime but does not include redundancy payments 
or Benefits in Kind. 

 

 

 
 
4. Boston College Results  
 

The data used for this exercise has been taken directly from a report produced by the 
College’s HR/Payroll database and covers the snapshot period of 31 March 2017. 

4.1. 

The mean gender pay gap 

The mean hourly rate of pay for male employees was £9.51, the mean hourly 
rate of pay for female employees was £8.95. 
 
The mean gender pay gap therefore equates to 5.97% 

4.2. 

The median gender pay gap 

The median hourly rate for male employees was £10.35, the median hourly rate 
of pay for female employees was £8.63. 
 
The median gender pay gap therefore equates to 16.61%. 

4.3 

The mean bonus gender pay gap 
 
The College does not make bonus payments. 

4.4 

The median bonus gender pay gap 

 

The College does not make bonus payments. 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

4.5 

The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 

 
 
4.6 

The College does not make bonus payments. 

The proportion of males and females in each quartile band 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Female 61.54% 

Male 37.93%   

Female 62.07% 

Male 32.76%   

Female 73.28% 

Female 67.24% 

Upper Quartile - 

Lower Quartile – 

Upper Middle Quartile -   Male 38.46%   

Lower Middle Quartile -   Male 26.72%   

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
The College has fixed and transparent pay scales where men and women are paid equally for 
doing  the  same  or  equivalent  job  and  gender  forms  no  part  of  any  decision  regarding 
remuneration.  
 
The College recruitment policy has always been to select the right person for the right role 
regardless  of  any  protected  characteristics.    We  have  provided  substantial  training  in 
recruitment procedures, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and Unconscious Bias to ensure that 
gender equality is central to all our selection decisions. 
 
The College offers flexible working arrangements to all staff, including maternity, paternity and 
shared parental leave policies, however it remains the fact that more requests are made by 
females than males.   
 
Boston College results show a mean gender pay gap of 5.97% and a median gender pay gap 
of 16.61%.  The Office of National Statistics have stated that the median gender pay gap in 
the Education sector was 26.7% in 2016. The college’s median gender pay gap of 16.61% 
therefore compares favourably with those across the education sector. There is currently no 
national mean gender pay gap figure for comparison purposes.   
 
The College gender ratio of Male 34%/Female 66% shows a fairly close correlation with the 
ratios demonstrated in each quartile with the greatest disparity being in Lower Middle Quartile, 
this represents a large number of part-time administrative roles for which we  receive a greater 
number of applications from females.  
 
The College ensures that we have policies and procedures in place that are fair to all and will 
continue to monitor the impact of these policies in terms of our gender pay gap.  
 
 

