Gender Pay Gap Report 

Kindertons Accident Management is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap 
report. 

This is its report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017. 

  The mean gender pay gap for Kindertons Accident Management is 6.56%. 

  The median gender pay gap for Kindertons Accident Management is 0%. 

  The mean gender bonus gap for Kindertons Accident Management is 2.73%. 

  The median gender bonus gap for Kindertons Accident Management is ‐56.22%. 

  The proportion of male employees in Kindertons Accident Management receiving a 

bonus is 70.34% and the proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 
80.82%. 

Pay quartiles by gender 

 

Band 

Males 

Females 

Description 

A 

B 

C 

D 

61.90% 

38.10% 

56.55% 

43.45% 

46.15% 

53.85% 

61.90% 

38.10% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them at or below the lower quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the lower quartile but at or 
below the median 
Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the median but at or below the 
upper quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate 
places them above the upper quartile 

 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in 
the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

What are the underlying causes of Kindertons Accident Management's gender pay gap? 

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

 

the same or broadly similar work; 

  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or 

  work of equal value. 

Kindertons Accident Management is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and 
equal treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, religion or belief, age, marriage 
or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or 
disability. It has a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, 
regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic set out above). As such, it: 

 

carries out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals; 

  evaluates job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

Kindertons Accident Management is therefore confident that its gender pay gap does not 
stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work. Rather its 
gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles 
(especially very senior roles at the top of organisations), while women are more likely than 
men to be in front‐line roles at the lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are more 
likely to be in technical and IT‐related roles, which attract higher rates of pay than other 
roles at similar levels of seniority. Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks 
from work that have affected their career progression, for example to bring up children. 
They are also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs that are available across 
the UK on a part‐time basis are relatively low paid. 

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make‐up of Kindertons 
Accident Management's workforce, where the majority of front‐line customer assistants 
within its call centre are women, while the majority of line manager and senior manager 
roles are held by men. In addition, the majority of the relatively highly paid e‐commerce 
roles are held by men and not women. 

How does Kindertons Accident Management's gender pay gap compare with that of other 
organisations? 

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to 
say that Kindertons Accident Management's gap compares favourably with that of other 
organisations. 

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4%, while 
in the insurance sector it is 18%. At 6.56%, Kindertons Accident Management's mean gender 
pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than the whole economy. 

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017 ONS 
ASHE figures) is 18.4%, while in the insurance sector it is 12.8%. At 0%, Kindertons Accident 
Management's median gender pay gap is, therefore, significantly lower than that for the 
whole economy. 

Comparison with other organisations  

  

Mean gender pay 
gap 
Median gender pay 
gap 

Kindertons 
Accident 

Management 
8.55% 

0% 

 

 

2017 ONS ASHE 
whole sector 

2017 ONS ASHE 
Insurance sector 

17.40% 

18.40% 

18.00% 

12.80% 

The mean gender bonus gap for Kindertons Accident Management is relatively low at 2.73%. 
The median bonus gap for Kindertons Accident Management is ‐56.22%. Kindertons 
Accident Management operates a KPI driven bonus scheme for all call centre and 
permanent depot based staff as well as an annual company bonus scheme. However, the 
company employs a fleet of relief drivers employed on zero hour contracts that are not 
entitled to bonus payments and are predominantly men which explains the difference in 
median bonus. 

The proportion of men at Kindertons Accident Management who received a bonus in the 12 
months up to 5 April 2017 was 70.34%, while for women this was 80.82%. This reflects the 
higher proportion of men in the relief driver roles that do not receive bonus payments.  

What is Kindertons Accident Management doing to address its gender pay gap? 

While Kindertons Accident Management gender pay gap compares favourably with that of 
organisations both across the whole UK economy and within the insurance sector, this is not 
a subject about which Kindertons Accident Management is complacent, and it is committed 
to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap. However, Kindertons Accident 
Management also recognises that its scope to act is limited in some areas ‐ it has, for 
example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals choose to study or the career 
choices that they make. 

To date, the steps that Kindertons Accident Management has taken to promote gender 
diversity in all areas of its workforce include the following: 

  Flexible working policy: Kindertons Accident Management operates a fair flexible 

working policy and welcomes requests from all roles in all departments in the 
business at all levels.  

  Supporting parents: Kindertons Accident Management supports employees prior to, 

during and on return from maternity and other parental leave.  

These initiatives will not of themselves remove the gender pay gap ‐ and it may be several 
years before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Kindertons Accident 

Management is committed to reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the 
gender pay gap and the progress that it is making. 

 

I, Neil Cunningham, Group CEO, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

Signed 

Date 

6 March 2018 

 

 

 

