Building a Stronger Business 
2017 gender pay gap report

We strongly believe that an inclusive culture that celebrates 
our differences enables us to drive growth and innovation, 
ultimately making us a stronger company.

What is the gender pay gap legislation?
Companies with 250 employees or more are required to publish statutory calculations every 
year reporting the pay and bonus gap between their male and female employees. This analysis 
must be based on data from 5th April every year.

The gender pay gap shows the differences in the average pay between men and women across 
the whole organisation irrespective of their role or seniority. 

This is different to equal pay. Equal pay requires that men and women who carry out the same 
or similar jobs; or work of equal value, are paid the same. Unequal pay, paying people 
differently because of their gender is unlawful.

Pay and Bonus Data

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Mean*          Median*

Difference in hourly rate paid to all male and female employees  

Difference in bonus pay paid to male and female employees 

43.5% 

64.6% 

7.2%

23.5%

* The mean is the difference in the average pay/bonus. The median is the middle value when pay/bonuses are listed in numerical order, from lowest to highest.

Proportion of male and female        
employees who were paid a bonus

Women

31%

Men

35.6%

69%

Bonus

No Bonus

64.4%

Bonus

No Bonus

Lifestyle Services Group Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Assurant Group Limited and part of the Assurant group of companies.

Unrestricted

The story behind the data
The main reason driving our pay and bonus gap is the ratio of senior men to women. Our upper quartile 
consists of 70% male and 30% female while the other three quartiles are much more equal in numbers 
(see below). 

Women

Men

30%

UPPER

QUARTILE

70%

LOWER
MIDDLE
QUARTILE

43%

57%

UPPER
MIDDLE
QUARTILE

52%

48%

LOWER

QUARTILE

52%

48%

The way forward

We are committed to reducing our gender pay and bonus gaps and have already started 
to implement a number of long-term initiatives:

Talent - To support diversity within our future leadership team 
We have identified Inclusion as a key enabler of our strategy and are committed to fostering a 
workforce that blends different cultures, backgrounds and perspectives. We embrace diversity of 
thought to challenge our thinking and ensure our talented teams are supported to achieve their full 
potential regardless of gender, age, experience or background

Recruitment - Attracting and selecting the right talent for our business
To complement our existing industry recognised recruitment practices, we have implemented a 
number of continuous improvement initiatives. We innovate and enhance our internal processes; our 
selected recruitment partners provide diverse shortlists; we use gender neutral language in our job 
adverts and we remove all identifiable characteristics from candidate applications

Policies and Procedures - To enable greater understanding 
We have raised employee awareness of key policies such as flexible working, family friendly and 
equal opportunities

Networking Groups - To support progression of our female talent
We have established a networking group to advance the cause of female career progression by raising 
awareness and highlighting any barriers 

Agile Working - Aligning lifestyle choices with career aspirations
We already support 49% of our workforce with agile working arrangements, but there is more we can 
do to promote what is available, and to raise awareness of how we can support our employees’ work 
life balance

Assurant strives to be a great place to learn and work, where individuals feel appreciated for their 
contributions. We value all employees for their diverse thoughts, ideas and experiences  

“We are passionate about creating an environment in which all 

our people can develop and thrive as we build a stronger 
Assurant, making us the best place to learn and work”

Andy Morris CEO and President, Assurant Europe

 

Unrestricted

Lifestyle Services Group Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Assurant Group Limited and part of the Assurant group of companies.

2017.11.03

