 

MERSEYSIDE POLICE 
GENDER PAY REPORT 

 

 

As an employer with over 250 police officers and police staff and as per the Equality Act 2010 
there is a requirement to comply with regulations and commit to Gender Pay Reporting. This 
is the first report produced by Merseyside Police which provides the detail of the Gender Pay 
Gap produced by this force  

The report has been completed to include both Police Officer and Police Staff information. It 
should  be  noted  that  Police  Officer  and  Police  Staff  Pay  is  determined  by  separate 
negotiating  machinery  and  pay  is  allocated  to  the  rank/grade  and  is  not  gender  specific. 
Female  and  males  who  undertake  the  same  role  will  be  paid  in  accordance  with  the  pay 
allocated to the role/rank irrespective of their gender. 

Merseyside Police • Gender Pay Report • 2018 

1 

 

SUMMARY 

AUDIT REQUIREMENT 

 

 

Gender pay reporting shows the difference between the average (mean or median) earnings 
of men and women expressed as a %. This is different than an equal pay audit which seeks to 
determine imbalances between males and females for the same jobs, similar jobs or work of 
an equal value. The gender pay gap results will be determined to assess: 

• 

Levels of gender equality within the Force 

•  Balance of males and females within bands within the organisation  

•  And how effectively talent is maximised. 

Outcomes of any identified inequalities will be addressed. 

The  Regulations  requires  all  public  bodies  to  report  on  their  gender  pay  gap  by  2018  and 
publish and report figures in the following key areas: 

•  The mean average pay gap 

•  The median average pay gap 

•  Median salary per quartile 

•  The mean bonus pay gap 

•  The median bonus pay gap 

•  % of males and females per population receiving bonus payments 

The information in this summary represents the gender pay gap for Merseyside Police as at 
the snapshot date of 31st March 2017 and includes payments made to all Merseyside Police 
officers and Police Staff at that date. Salary information used in the calculation is inclusive of 
all  gross  payments  and  is  made  up  of  basic  pay,  shift  allowances,  payments  for  unsocial 
working and other elements of pay including bonus payments information at the key date.  

Salary  scales  for  each  employment  group  are  determined  nationally  and  pay  progression 
through  the  rank/grade  is  by  annual  increments  subject  to  satisfactory  performance.  This 
annual  progression  takes  place  until  the  maximum  point  of  scale  for  the  rank/  grade  is 
achieved. 

 

 

THE FORCE 

 

 

Merseyside Police consists of two groups of employees, police officers and police staff. Each 
employment group is subject to separate Terms and Conditions. 

•  Police  Officers  –  The  Police  Regulations  form  the  basis  of  an  officer’s  Terms  and 
Conditions.  These  are  Statutory  Instruments  determined  by  the  Government  based  on 
recommendations received from the Independent Police Remuneration Review Body. 

•  Police Staff – The Police Staff Handbook. The salary scale is determined by the Police 
Staff  Council  Negotiating  machinery.  The  grading  structure  within  this  salary  range  is 
determined  by  a  Hay  Job  Evaluation  process.  As  Police  Community  Support  Officers 
(PCSO’s) are paid within the terms of the Police Staff Handbook they are included within 
this employment group. 

The data has been calculated using mean and median calculation method detailed as follows: 

MEAN 

The  difference  between  the  average  gross  hourly  earnings  of  male  and  females.  This  is 
expressed as a percentage of the average gross hourly earnings of male employees. 

MEDIAN 

This is the middle point of the dataset. 

QUARTILE COMPARISON  

An examination of the gender pay gap in expressed as a quartile of the workforce.

 

 

FINDINGS 

 

 

 

 

Police Officers 

Female  Officers  receive  on  average  £0.76  less  than  male  officers.  This  equates  to  a  mean 
average  pay  gap  of  4.08%.  The  median  measure  indicates  that  female  officers  receive  an 
average of £0.33 less than male officers equating to a median pay gap of 1.77% 

 

 

Police Staff 

Female  Police  Staff  receive  on  average  £1.09  less  than  male  police  staff.  This  equates  to  a 
mean  average  pay  gap  of  7.59%.  The  median  measure  indicates  that  female  police  staff 
employees receive an average of £0.38 less than male officers equating to a median pay gap 
of 2.92% 

The mean and median gender pay gap figures above for both police officers and police staff 
are below the national average. 

 

This report has been based on a total nominal headcount of 5690 relevant employees at the 
snapshot  date,  of  this  total,  2274  are  female  and  3416  are  male.  This  equates  to  39.96% 
females and 60.04% males respectively. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OVERALL GENDER PAY – WHOLE WORKFORCE 

 

MALE 

FEMALE 

GAP 

% 

MEAN AVERAGE HOURLY RATE 

£17.59 

£15.27 

£2.30 

13.19 

 

 

 

 

 

MEDIAN 

 

£18.29 

£15.29 

£3.00 

16.40 

Females  within  the  organisation  receive  on  average  £2.30  less  than  male  police  staff.  This 
equates to a mean  average  pay  gap  of  13.19%. The median measure indicates that female 
police  staff  employees  receive  an  average  of  £3.00  less  than  male  officers  equating  to  a 
median pay gap of 16.40 %. 

 

QUARTILE DATA 

 

MALE 

FEMALE 

1st QUARTILE - Upper Quartile 

75.90% 

24.10% 

 

 

 

2nd QUARTILE - Upper Middle Quartile 

69.49% 

30.51% 

 

 

 

3rd Quartile - Lower Middle Quartile 

53.42% 

46.58% 

 

 

 

4th QUARTILE - Lower Quartile 

41.69% 

58.31% 

The quartile summary indicates that the gender pay quartile gap is highest within the lower 
quartiles.  

 

 

BONUS PAYMENTS   

The Force pays bonus payments. These are paid when there is a requirement for an officer or 
member  of  staff  to  perform  a  task  of  an  unpleasant  nature  such  as  the  fingerprinting  of  a 
badly decomposed body or for those who have excelled in performance.  

For data for 2016/17 is a follows 

Police Officer Bonus Payments 

 

Median Gap 

Mean Gap 

No’s in receipt 

Male 

£50.00 

£121.43 

2.19% 

Female 

£50.00 

£50.00 

0.61% 

Pay Gap 

£0.00 

£71.43 

Difference 

0% 

58.82% 

 

 

 

 

Police Staff Bonus Payments 

 

Median Gap 

Mean Gap 

No’s in receipt 

Male 

£50.00 

£107.14 

0.81% 

Female 

£50.00 

£150.00 

0.23% 

Pay Gap 

£0.00 

£42.86 

Difference 

0% 

28.57% 

 

 

 

For 2016/17 female police staff employees received an average of 28.57% more in respect of 
bonus payments than their male counterparts 

 

 

 

Whole Force– Bonus Payments  

 

Median Gap 

Mean Gap 

No’s in receipt 

Male 

£50.00 

£119.84 

1.85% 

Female 

£50.00 

£83.33 

0.40% 

Pay Gap 

£0.00 

£36.51 

Difference 

0% 

30.47% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OVERALL SUMMARY  

 

There are many different features that impact on gender related pay.  

It is acknowledged that police officer and police staff pay is determined in accordance to the 
rank/grade and that there is no relation to gender. Females and male officers and staff who 
perform the same rank/grade will receive the same full time equivalent rate of pay for the 
rank/grade  that  is  undertaken  and  that  progression  through  the  rank  /grade  is  by  means 
annual increment 

The factors that influence differences within gender related pay include 

•  The  availability  of  family  friendly  policies  and  the  ability  to  vary  hours  of  work  to  suit 
commitments. This is adopted in the main but not exclusively by females and can result 
in  the  loss of  certain  allowances  as  working  patterns  are  changed  with the  loss  of  shift 
related allowances  

•  Part  time  working,  more  females  tend  to  work  part  time  than  their  male  counterparts 
which again affects the difference in overall pay and allowances which are subject to pro 
rata. This can be attributed to both police officers and police staff. 

• 

In the main men work more unsocial hours resulting in a higher overall remuneration. 

•  Some  historical  allowances  have  the  result  of  increasing  remuneration,  this  applies  to 
allowances such as rent and housing allowance, applicable to officers in service prior to 
1st September 1994. These allowances are paid in the main to male officers and were in 
payment  at  a  time  when  the  %  ratio  of  male  to  female  officers  was  historically  much 

 

 

greater than that representative of the present day. These allowances will be phased out 
as officers leave the organisation.  

Merseyside Police  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  any  issues which  impact on  the  pay  and 
pay gender equality are addressed by:- 

Ensuring  that  female  officers  and  staff  continue  to  progress  through  the  rank  and  grading 
structure via positive promotion processes. 

Maintaining a continuous impetus on the recruitment, retention and progression of female 
officers  and  police  staff  not  only  on  engagement  but  to  more  senior  roles  within  the 
organisation. 

We  continue  to  work  with  our  Women’s  Network  and  Part  Time  Working  Network  to 
promote gender equality. 

 

