The National Audit Office 
gender pay gap

JANUARY 2018

2  The National Audit Office gender pay gap

Introduction

At the NAO, we believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is integral to our continued 
success as an organisation, helping us to raise employee engagement, increase our 
productivity, drive future innovation and build stronger, more insightful relationships with 
our clients and stakeholders. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) strategy sets out the steps 
we are taking to become a fully diverse and inclusive organisation and we report on our 
achievements in our annual D&I report. 

As part of new legislation introduced in April 2017, the NAO is required to publish 
gender pay gap information based on a snapshot date of 31 March 2017. This report 
details our gender pay gap and outlines the action we are taking to reduce the gap. 
Clearly, we won’t be able to achieve this overnight, but we believe that the measures 
we have in place will improve workplace equality for women and ultimately close the 
gap between male and female pay. 

Gender pay gap data 

Mean gap: 10.6%

Median gap: 11.3%

Mean and median bonus pay gap: not applicable  
(the NAO does not operate a bonus scheme)

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus: not applicable  
(the NAO does not operate a bonus scheme)

Proportion of males and females in each quartile:

Quartile
Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

Males (%)

Females (%)

56

46

59

65

44

54

41

35

Our analysis shows that the gap is largely explained by the higher proportion of men 
than women in senior roles in March 2017. Improving the proportion of women in senior 
grades remains a key focus of our D&I strategy. Last year, the Office’s women’s network 
conducted a survey of women’s experiences of our promotion process and we have 
made a number of changes as a result of this feedback to encourage more women to 
apply for promotion and ensure they are fairly treated throughout the process. 

The National Audit Office gender pay gap  3

We are maintaining our efforts to attract and recruit women to the NAO, particularly 
through our graduate and school leaver training programmes, which are the feeder 
grades for more senior roles. For example, we use job boards that are specifically 
aimed at women and we have re-branded our graduate recruitment materials to 
more closely reflect the diversity of our workforce, which include profiles of our 
female trainees. In 2017, women made up 41% of graduate applicants and 50% 
of those who joined the programme. 

We are taking a number of other actions to help level the playing field for all staff at the 
NAO. These include:

•  Ongoing promotion of our family friendly policies, including flexible working and 

shared parental leave

•  A continued focus on addressing unconscious bias, including an e-learning module 

for all staff and embedding the ‘independent challenger’ role in our decision 
making processes, such as appraisals and promotions

•  Rollout of the second phase of our 3 year office wide training programme on the 

way we work, which emphasises the importance of inclusion and valuing the 
different perspectives that each of us bring to our work

Written statement 

I can confirm that the NAO’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the 
requirements of the Regulations. The calculations have been reviewed by our internal 
auditors, who have confirmed that the methodology provided in the Equality Act 2010 
(Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017 has been correctly applied. 

Amyas Morse 

C&AG

© National Audit Office 2018

The material featured in this document is subject to 
National Audit Office (NAO) copyright. The material 
may be copied or reproduced for non-commercial 
purposes only, namely reproduction for research, 
private study or for limited internal circulation within 
an organisation for the purpose of review. 

Copying for non-commercial purposes is subject 
to the material being accompanied by a sufficient 
acknowledgement, reproduced accurately, and not 
being used in a misleading context. To reproduce 
NAO copyright material for any other use, you must 
contact copyright@nao.gsi.gov.uk. Please tell us who 
you are, the organisation you represent (if any) and 
how and why you wish to use our material. Please 
include your full contact details: name, address, 
telephone number and email. 

Please note that the material featured in this 
document may not be reproduced for commercial 
gain without the NAO’s express and direct 
permission and that the NAO reserves its right to 
pursue copyright infringement proceedings against 
individuals or companies who reproduce material for 
commercial gain without our permission.

Links to external websites were valid at the time of 
publication of this report. The National Audit Office 
is not responsible for the future validity of the links.

Design and Production by NAO External Relations 
DP Ref: 11701-001

