 

Gender Pay Gap Report - 2017 
 
Published February 2018 
 
Background 
 
Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with more than 250 
employees are required to publish their gender pay gap under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender 
Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  This requires six calculations and presenting the 
results that show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in our 
organisation.   
 
The six calculations that such employers are required to show are as follows: 
 

1.  Proportion of males to females in each pay quartile 
2.  Proportion of males to females who are paid bonus pay 
3.  Gender pay gap (median) 
4.  Gender bonus gap (median) 
5.  Gender pay gap (mean) 
6.  Gender bonus gap (mean) 

 
Acorns does not pay any bonuses to any of its staff. We are therefore limiting this report to 
the three calculations that we are mandated to report: 
 

1.  Proportion of males to female in each pay quartile 
3.  Gender pay gap (median) 
5.  Gender pay gap (mean) 

 
Employers are additionally encouraged to include in their report a comment on the following: 
 

A.  What is causing your Gender Pay Gap 
B.  What are you doing about the Gender Pay Gap 

 
We are pleased to include answers to those questions in this report. 
 
Introduction - What is the Gender Pay Gap and how is it calculated? 
 
The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the average hourly pay received 
by men and women across the organisation.  This report presents the information at the 
same given point of time that all organisations have been requested to use, which is on 5th 
April 2017.   
 
We are required to calculate and present our Gender Pay Gap in two different ways: 
 
The median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly 
earnings of all men and all women.  So if we wanted to calculate the median pay for 99 men 
or women, we would need to rank their hourly earnings in order from lowest to highest and 
pick the middle-most salary, i.e., the 50th person out of 99.  This person would have 49 
people paid more than him or her, and 49 people paid less than him or her. 
 
The mean pay gap is the difference between average hourly earnings of all men and all 
women employed by Acorns.  So if we wanted to calculate the mean hourly earnings for 99 

Registered charity no: 700859. Registered in England company no: 2036103.  
Registered office: Drakes Court, Alcester Road, Wythall, Birmingham B47 6JR.  

 

people, we would add up the hourly earnings of all 99 people, and then divide the total by 
99.   
 
The median is included, and often preferred, because it is felt to remove the influence of very 
high and very low pay and therefore more fairly represents typical hourly earnings. 
 
 
The Gender Profile of our workforce at Acorns  
 

10.7% 

89.3% 

Men
Women

 

 
On 5 April 2017, just under 90% of our employees at Acorns were female.  While obviously a 
high figure, this proportion is not uncommon for either a charitable entity, particularly for a 
charity like us operating in the care sector.  
 
1.  The Proportion of males to females in each pay quartile 
   
The below table is made by splitting the whole workforce into four equal sized bands based 
on hourly pay, from highest to lowest.  The percentage of men and women is then calculated 
for each band.  
 
This is a very positive data set for Acorns.  What is very encouraging in the data we are 
reporting is that the percentage of women and men in our workforce at Acorns is almost 
identical in the highest pay quartile as the lowest pay quartile.  In other words, we have the 
same proportion of women and men in our best paid roles at Acorns as in our lowest paid 
roles. 
 

Upper

9.7% 

90.3% 

Upper Middle

12.1% 

Lower Middle

11.4% 

87.9% 

88.6% 

Lower

9.5% 

90.5% 

Men

Women

 

 

 

 
3 - Our Median Gender Pay Gap at Acorns 
 
Our Median Pay Gap has been calculated at 2.43%. 
 
 

Median Pay Gap 

2.43% 

 
 

Male

Female

 

5 - Our Mean Gender Pay Gap at Acorns 
 
Our Mean Pay Gap has been calculated at 10.57%. 
 
 

Mean Pay Gap 

10.57% 

Male

Female

 
 
A - What is causing our Gender Pay Gap  
 
While lower than charity sector averages, and far lower than commercial sector averages, 
Acorns is reporting both a median and a mean pay gap.  The main reason for this is the fact 
that we have a predominantly female workforce and a very small total number of male 
employees.  Therefore, even small fluctuations in the male workforce can have a significant 

 

 

impact on our gender pay gap, specifically our “mean” calculation.  
 
Acorns currently employs a male Chief Executive, and four female Executive Directors.  We 
also employ a male Paediatric Consultant.  These are the charity’s six highest paid members 
of staff.  You can find our latest Report & Financial Statements, which contains the required 
statutory and regulatory disclosures about the pay and reward of our senior management. -
https://www.acorns.org.uk/about-acorns/publications/ 
 
Our median pay gap of 10.57% at Acorns is explained by the fact that two of our six highest 
paid members of staff are male, within a small total number of male employees.  
 
We believe that the “median” Gender Pay Gap is the more significant measure in our 
organisation, for precisely the reason given by the Office of National Statistics in their 
guidance on which of these two measures to use:i  
 
Why is the median used as the main measure of earnings? 
 
There are several methods of calculating an average; most analyses focus on the median, that 
is, the data value at which 50% of data values are above it and 50% of data values are below it. 
 
We use the median because the distribution of earnings is skewed, with more people earning 
lower salaries than higher salaries. When using the mean to calculate the average of a skewed 
distribution, it is highly influenced by those values at the upper end of the distribution and thus 
may not be truly representative of the average earnings of a typical person. By taking the middle 
value of the data after sorting in ascending order, the median avoids this issue and is 
consequently considered a better indicator of “typical” average earnings. 
 
B.  What are we doing about our Gender Pay Gap? 
 
We believe that given the statistical context listed above, there is no cause for concern for 
Acorns in this data, and therefore no management response needed.  Our median and our 
mean pay gaps are below both charity sector averages.  
 
We can continue to explore how we can attract more men into our organisation to create a 
more even gender balance, given that we have more women than men at every level of our 
organisation, including the senior leadership team.   
 
As an equal opportunities employer, we believe in appointing the best candidate into the 
role, regardless of their gender or other factors covered by the Equality Act. 
 
Declaration 
 
We confirm that Acorn’s Children’s Hospice Trust’s gender pay gap calculations are 
calculated in accordance with the guidance and requirements prescribed by the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
 
Toby Porter 
 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
                                                           
i 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/methodologi
es/guidetointerpretingannualsurveyofhoursandearningsasheestimates 

Janet Thomas 
Director of HR  

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

