Gender Pay 
Gap Report 

April 2018

2

Introduction

Alison Ross
People and Culture Director

At Auto Trader we are passionate about creating a 
diverse, inclusive and conscious business. We aim for 
our colleagues to reflect the communities in which 
we operate and for them to feel they can bring their 
authentic selves to work every day. In 2016, we created 
a dedicated working group tasked with implementing 
a strategy to ensure diversity and inclusion become 
part of our Company’s DNA. We are committed 
to ensuring everyone has equal opportunities to 
achieve their potential. An important element of this 
is ensuring that our colleague’s pay and opportunities  
are based solely on their skill, behaviour and 
contribution and not on gender or any other such 
factor. We welcome the government’s initiative to 
promote transparency on gender pay. 

Diversity at Auto Trader means respect for and 
appreciation of differences in: gender, age, sexual 
orientation, disability, race and ethnic origin, 
religion and faith, marital status, social, educational 
background and way of thinking. We believe that 
inclusion is a state of being valued, respected and 
supported for who you are. In order for us to achieve 
our ambition, we have a strategy that is centred 
around taking action, with a focus on welcoming 
more women to our business and offering them 
opportunities for an exciting career.

 Diversity at Auto Trader 
means respect for and 
appreciation of differences

What is the gender pay gap 
and why are we reporting this?

It’s now a legal requirement for all employers with 
250 or more employees to calculate and publish their 
gender pay and gender bonus gaps as they are on 5 
April each year. 

The gender pay gap is the measure of the difference 
between the average pay for all women in the 
organisation compared to all men.  It is a snapshot 
based on employees as at 5 April 2017, and is 
calculated using specific and detailed rules as set out 
in the legislation. 

It is important to note that the gender pay gap does not 
show differences in rate of pay for comparable jobs. 
The calculations are an average for all women and men 
employees, regardless of job role. 

What is Auto Trader’s gender 
pay gap?

Substantially all our group employees are employed 
by Auto Trader Limited which is the only company 
within Auto Trader Group that has more than 250 
employees; and so that is the focus of this report, but 
we’ve also included some of the key figures for the 
whole Auto Trader Group1 which, although we aren’t 
required to provide, we think is important for complete 
transparency.

The figures set out have been calculated using the 
mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay gap 
reporting legislation. 

3

Pay gaps between men and 
women at Auto Trader Group1

Mean 
hourly

Median 
hourly

14.9%

17.5%

Pay gaps between men and 
women at Auto Trader Limited

54.1%

18.5%

12.1%

21.0%

Mean 
hourly

Median 
hourly

Mean 
bonus

Median 
bonus

Proportion receiving bonus2

at Auto Trader Limited

23%

18%

Salary quartiles at Auto Trader Limited

48% 52%
Lower quartile 

39% 61%

Lower middle quartile 

28% 72%

Upper middle quartile 

32% 68%
Upper quartile 

 1. This includes all full pay relevant employees within the Auto Trader Group as at 5 April 2017, including Auto Trader Group plc 

(which had only 3 employees) and 37 employees at Webzone Limited (a company registered in Ireland).  

2. Bonus includes commissions which were incorporated into base salary part way through the reporting year.

Why does the gap exist?

This is not about inequality of pay.  We are confident 
that men and women are paid equally across the 
business for comparable roles. 

Our gender pay gap arises from;

•  Under representation of women in certain highly-

paid functions, including technology and other 
STEM (science, technology, engineering and 
mathematics) related roles.

•  Under representation of women in leadership roles.

Although we do not believe that any level of gap is 
acceptable, our gender pay gap is lower than the UK 
high-tech sector of 25%3, showing the progress we 
have already made. Our median gender pay gap is in 
line with the UK average of 18.5%.

Our bonus pay gap is higher than our hourly pay gap.  
As part of our remuneration policy we aim to operate 
a simple approach and so we incorporate bonuses 
into basic pay for the majority of employees.  Part way 
through 2016/17, we also incorporated commissions 
into base salary so these will no longer appear in 
our bonus pay gap in future years.  The remaining 
gap is reflective of the different bonus structures for 
different roles within our senior management team. 

4

Our commitments to make a 
difference

We are committed to addressing the gender pay 
gap, and we are taking a number of actions.  We 
have established a Diversity and Inclusion Guild, with 
representation from across all parts of the business 
and led by members of our Operational Leadership 
Team. This guild is responsible for developing and 
driving our strategy to create a diverse, inclusive and 
conscious Auto Trader.

Some of the actions we are taking may make the gap 
widen in the short term as the proportion of women in 
entry level roles increases.

Our gender pay gap is 
lower than the UK 
high-tech sector of 25%3, 
showing the progress we 
have already made

3. Gender Pay in the UK High-tech industry, Mercer LLC 2016

Our progress so far

Educating colleagues

•  We have delivered our “One Auto Trader: Creating 
a Diverse & Inclusive Culture” one-day workshops 
for all our colleagues. Every new joiner will attend 
the workshop as part of their induction into the 
business. 

•  Our “Brilliant Recruitment” training for everyone 

involved in hiring for our business help colleagues 
explore their unconscious biases and ensure they 
do not play a part in their decision making. 

Encouraging girls and women into STEM careers 

•  For the past two years we have run Code Clubs in 
local schools to inspire the future generation of 
women developers in technology.

•   We have joined forces with Manchester Digital to 

launch the Software Development Apprenticeships

•  Our graduate scheme has strong representation  

of women.

Internal and external recruitment of women 

•  In the twelve months to December 2017  women 

have successfully secured 60% of all internal 
vacancies, compared to 24% in the previous year.

•  Our external recruitment efforts have resulted in 
47% of all external job offers being accepted by 
women, compared to 37% in the previous year.

Flexible working

5

In the past twelve months 
women have successfully 
secured 60% of all internal 
vacancies, compared to 
24% the previous year

•  We are encouraging more people to take advantage 

of the flexible working practices we offer including 
part time hours, job share, term time working and 
flexible hours.

Coaching and mentoring for women

•  We offer coaching and mentoring for our women so 
they can be supported in progressing to more senior 
positions and realising their full potential at work. 

Career development

Women’s network

•  We have a fair representation of women across our 

key learning and development programmes. Our 
Leadership Development Programme, which aims 
to nurture our future senior leaders of our business, 
comprises 50% women and 50% men. 

•  Our women colleagues have benefited from a 

variety of development opportunities including full 
sponsorship to study for professional qualifications 
and academic qualifications. 

•  Our women’s network is an employee network 

of men and women that champion women in 
the workplace not only within our business but 
also in the communities we operate in. They run 
educational and networking events throughout 
the year bringing together like-minded people and 
initiating real change. 

6

Summary

Trevor Mather
Chief Executive Officer

I am personally very dedicated to addressing the 
diversity balance in our organisation, of which gender is 
one area. I spend a lot of time with Alison thinking about 
how we initiate real change through our organisation 
so our ambition to become one of the most diverse and 
inclusive employers can become a reality. 

Having a truly diverse employee base allows for a 
more rounded, creative and innovative organisation. 
That is why we have created not only our overarching 
diversity and inclusion guild, but also four sub-
groups focused on creating and executing inclusive 
strategies in the following areas: women; LGBT+; 
BAME and; disability and neurodiversity.

The fantastic thing about AutoTrader is that the whole 
business is passionate about driving change in both 

the wider technology and automotive sectors, and 
it is as a collective that we care deeply about doing 
the right thing. We continue to launch initiatives 
both internally and within the wider communities to 
educate, challenge attitudes and address issues 
like the gender pay gap, some of which are driven 
by leadership, most of which are driven by groups of 
employees who are passionate about the specific 
challenge we are trying to address.

There is still a lot to be done but together I believe we 
can make great strides to eradicate inequalities and 
truly celebrate diversity in all its forms.

 I confirm the data reported is accurate.

Trevor Mather 

