GENDER PAY
2017 REPORT

Introduction

At Enotria&Coe we believe in transparency, and sharing our Gender Pay Gap Report is a great 

opportunity to further our approach to an open culture and exploration of equality and how this is 

managed in the workplace. Our report is collated utilising the approach required by the regulations, 

and therefore calculations are based on male and female pay comparisons. We are really proud to 

share our results which reflect that although we have a gap, in comparison to National UK averages we 

demonstrate positive results. 

National UK 

Average

Mean

Median

17.4%

18.4%

E&C

+9.1%

-12.1%

Our organisation is currently 75% male dominant and has been so for many years. We recognise 

through our recruitment processes that, for a number of roles within our business, applicants are 

predominantly male and this is driven to a large extent by the fact that 38% of our workforce is made 

up of warehouse and driver roles. Within our head office functions, which represents 35% of our total 

staff, we see a much more equitable split between genders: 56% are female and 44% are male.

It is our intention to utilise the findings of this report to challenge ourselves as an Executive Leadership 

Team, to encourage and understand our diversity disparities and consider any possible proactive 

opportunities to enhance results positively on an ongoing basis. 

However, as a business we take our people responsibilities and equality seriously, our workforce is 

diverse and we aspire to encourage everyone to be their best and grow and develop. We will continue to 

offer the best possible opportunities to everyone regardless of gender, seniority or any other factor. 

Understanding the 
Gender Pay Gap

The regulations require us to show in this report the differences in average pay between men and 
women. The data is collated across all departments and roles across the business. 

This report should not be confused with an equal pay comparison, which involves direct comparison of 
two or more individuals who carry out the same or similar roles. 

One of the main drivers of the Gender Pay Gap is to reflect that within society it is more likely that men 
will end up in more senior roles than women. 

How are the Median and 
Mean Gaps Calculated

We have carefully followed the regulations, and we have taken pay data from the entire business, which 
is made up of a wide variety of roles. 

To calculate the median average we created a list of all female colleagues’ pay and placed them in 
order from lowest to highest, then we did exactly the same for all of our male colleagues. We then 
identified the middle salary for each gender. The median gender pay gap is the difference between the 
salary of the female colleague in the middle of their list and the salary of the male in the middle 
of their list. 

The other calculation which we have to report on is the mean gender pay gap, this shows the difference 
in average hourly pay between men and women. 

The calculations are based on employees who received full, normal pay in the April 2017 payroll, not 
including overtime. The proportion of bonus payments awarded over the 12 months up to April 2017 is 
also reported. 

How are the pay quartiles calculated?

We are also required to report on pay by quartile. Our quartiles are calculated by listing all pay rates 
for the business, lowest to highest, then splitting the list into four equal sized groups and showing the 
percentage of males and females within each of the quartiles.

What is included in Calulations?

The information used to calculate mean and median pay and also percentage by quartile is based on 
salary data from April 2017.

Bonus pay is calculated from any bonus payments made as a result of the 2016 Bonus schemes which 
were paid in quarter 1 of 2017. Additionally, bonus payments also included were departmental incentive 
schemes, length of service bonus payments and recruit a friend incentive payments.

2017 Result

We recognise that within our pay ranges we do have gaps. However, we are confident that we 
understand the reasons for this and that they are not created by men and women being paid differently 
to do the same jobs, but are driven more by some of the more gender dominant environments of our 
business.

Proportion of male and female 
employees by quartile

UPPER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

Male    82.5%

Female    17.5%

Male    64.1%

Female    35.9%

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

Male    54.7%

Female    45.3%

Male    82.5%

Female    17.5%

Difference between 
men and women

National UK 

Average

Mean

Median

17.4%

18.4%

E&C

+9.1%

-12.1%

Estimates from published surveys suggest that the UK mean pay gap is 17.4% whilst the median pay 

gap is 18.4% and therefore our results indicate that our gap is better than average.   

These results reflect the male dominance of our workforce and also that our male population 

dominates roles within the upper and lower pay quartiles. We currently have low female representation 

in both of these quartiles, this is certainly an area for monitoring, and in particular consideration in 

encouraging development of our female population to grow a stronger representation 

into the upper quartile.

Bonus Pay Difference between 
men and women

Difference in bonus payments

Mean

Median

35.1% Men

19.6% Women

The proportion of male relevant employees in receipt of a bonus is 35%

The proportion of female relevant employees in receipt of a bonus is 28%

Staff Mix across divisions

OFFICE STAFF

SALES STAFF

35% total staff

Male    44%

Female   56%

27% total staff

Male    76%

Female    24%

WAREHOUSE STAFF

39% total staff

Male    98%

Female    2%

Behind the Scenes

Our data is based upon a lot of information and, looked at in isolation, it can give a misleading 
impression. We take a very fair approach to people, whether it is recruitment, pay or development and 
promotion opportunities. We take each of these elements very seriously, and so it is important for us to 
understand and explain what we have learnt from collating the gender pay data and what we 
intend to do. 

Whilst it is easy to look at total averages and make assumptions, we should also consider pertinent 
factors, for example, we have a high proportion of colleagues (38%) who work in the operational side 
of the business and earn within the lower quartile. This part of our business is mainly male dominated 
and is likely to remain so. 

Both the economy as a whole and the balance of men and women across job levels is a key factor 
contributing towards the pay gap. 

We will continue to monitor our progress, and look for positive ways to step change our gender pay 
gap. In particular, we will proactively monitor our Sales and Warehouse / Transport divisions to seek to 
ensure that our positive median gender pay and bonus gap is protected and does not diminish.

Part of our ongoing development strategy will see us investing more in training and development. 
One of the key plans for 2018 is to launch Evolve, this is our first focused management development 
programme that will lead to a degree equivalent qualification for those who complete the programme, 
we hope that the application process for this will see an equal take up by males and females. However, 
places are limited to 5/6 and we will maintain our integrity as a fair employee by only enrolling those 
suitable and performing at the level which will enable them to succeed. 

Final Statement 

The data and information that this report highlights will continue to be monitored and reviewed to 
ensure that we continue to progress and consider alternative opportunities to close our gender pay 
gap, as much as possible. 
The information and data contained covers all Enotria&Coe colleagues and I can confirm that the 
information contained herein is accurate. 

Gemma Bolton
Director of HR
Enotria&Coe

