Pg.1

Gender Pay Reporting

April 2018

Angela Cale

Finance Director

About us

Pg.2

At C.P. Hart we genuinely believe in the saying that ‘people are your most valuable 
asset’ and that attracting, retaining and developing staff is essential for long-term 
success. As such, we invest in our people’s learning and development throughout 
their careers with us, regardless of their position or length of service. C.P. Hart has a 
long-established reputation in the industry for expertise and service.

Our key aims are to nurture product, design and brand knowledge, and to develop 
service skills. We are always looking for pro-active people with a positive attitude, in 
sales, administration and distribution.

It is our policy that recruitment and internal promotions are determined solely by 
objective standards and personal merit. No applicant or colleague will be treated less 
favourably than another on grounds of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage 
and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex or sexual 
orientation.

Gender pay gap

Pg.3

Current national average is 17.4% lower*

Current national average is 18.4% lower*

* From Office for National Statistics ASHE survey 2017

Pay Quartiles

Pg.4

Number of employees in each quartile

This shows the percentage of male and females in each of 4 equal quarters. All employees are ranked in 

order of average pay, from the lowest to the highest, and then split into 4 equal quarters.

The lower quartile is dominated by males in warehouse and distribution and the upper quartile by high 

earning male salespeople. The majority of females occupy roles in the middle quartiles.

Bonus payment

Pg.5

Bonus includes sales commissions and incentives, long term service awards and recruitment bonus.

Bonus payments are skewed by a high proportion of males receiving long term service awards and a one off recruitment bonus

Mean – The average male bonus is 20% higher than the average female bonus due to commission paid to top salespersons who 

are mainly male

Median - The middle earning male bonus is 166% less than the middle earning female, skewed by low value long term service 

awards to mainly males

Our plans for the future

Pg.6

• C.P. Hart are committed to helping all colleagues equally achieve their potential 

throughout their career with us.

• We have processes in place to ensure equality in recruitment, training and promotion 

as evidenced by the fact that our gender pay gap is considerably better than the 
national average.

• Female long term service awards are lower than male awards, by agreeing to flexible 

working arrangements this has encouraged our female workforce to continue their 
careers with C.P. Hart.

• The Executive Team and Board of C.P. Hart at Apr-17 was 45% female, by Apr-18 this 

had risen to 50% female. C.P. Hart also has a female Managing Director.

