Gender Pay Report 
2018

About CEGA

CEGA Group Services Limited is a niche provider 
of emergency medical and claims services.

It operates a merit based approach to pay and supports 
the fair treatment of staff irrespective of gender.  
Pay in customer-facing roles is set out in pay bands. 

The gap in pay between males and females at CEGA 
does not arise from differentials in pay between men 
and women undertaking the same role. Rather, CEGA’s 
gender pay gap is the result of the fact that men and 
women undertake different roles and, specifically, 
the hours which female staff work.

On 5 April 2017  
(the reporting date)  
CEGA employed 464 staff: 

Males

179
285

Females

179

285

The mean and median gender pay gap

The mean gender pay gap is the difference  
in average hourly rates of pay earned by men 
and women. 

This is calculated by taking all the hourly rates  
of pay earned by our staff on the reporting date, 
adding them together and dividing the total  
by the number of employees. 

The median gender pay gap is the difference  
in mid-points of the ranges of hourly rates of pay 
when these are arranged from lowest to highest  
so that the middle pay value can be compared.

Pay gap

Mean
Median
12.97% 9.71%

The mean and median bonus pay gap

The mean bonus pay gap is the difference  
in average bonus pay received by male and 
female employees. 

Bonus gap

Mean
Median
39.19% 16.48%

The median bonus pay gap shows the difference  
in the mid-point of the ranges of the bonuses paid 
to male and female employees.

Funtington Park, Cheesmans Lane, Funtington, 
Chichester, West Sussex, PO18 8UE, UK

info@cegagroup.com  |  cegagroup.com

The following charts depict CEGA’s pay quartiles by gender.  
In all the quartiles there are more part time females than males.

Proportion of male and female staff in each pay quartile.

Lower 
quartile

Lower  

middle quartile

Upper  

middle quartile

Upper 
quartile

40.91

27.27

41.82

46.66

59.09

72.73

58.18

53.33

Why do we have a gender 
pay gap and bonus pay 
gap at CEGA?

We believe we have a gender pay gap in CEGA 
because the majority of front-line customer facing 
roles occur in the lower and lower middle pay 
quartiles. These roles are occupied, 
predominantly, by female colleagues. 

Where we have paid bonuses to part-time female 
staff these have been pro-rated to reflect their 
part-time hours. However, the bonus pay gap 
calculation does not recognise or take into 
account the fact that colleagues may be working 
part-time.

Our most senior roles have higher pay and these 
roles are largely occupied by male employees. 
Similarly, specialist/niche roles in the 
organisation which attract higher pay are 
occupied by male employees.

Funtington Park, Cheesmans Lane, Funtington,  
Chichester, West Sussex, PO18 8UE, UK

info@cegagroup.com  |  cegagroup.com

In the reporting period, 305 staff 
were eligible to receive a bonus.

Gender split of bonus payments is shown

36.72

63.28

66%

Of the total of 
male workforce 
received a bonus

73%

Of the total of 
female workforce 
received a bonus

What CEGA is doing to minimise the pay gap
CEGA is committed to equal opportunities and promoting a diverse workforce. 

We know from our employee engagement survey in 2017 that CEGA staff feel that diversity is an important 
aspect of working life and that if there are any improvements to be made these are not concerned with gender 
or any other protected characteristic. We will continue to develop sound platforms for pay, recognition and 
reward over 2018 and beyond. Broadly speaking what we are working on can be grouped into three themes: 
attracting talent, developing our talent, and retaining our talent.

Attracting and selecting talent
•  We have introduced hiring and on boarding training

that enables managers to understand protected
characteristics and to avoid bias. Since April 2017
we have made employment offers to 109 females
and 71 male applicants.

•  All our recruitment advertising is regularly monitored

to ensure that it is gender neutral.

Developing our talent
•  All managers hold regular 1:1s with team members
with an emphasis on high performance and career
development, regardless of gender.

•  We introduced a talent framework in 2017 and we will

continue this work in 2018 by encouraging female
careers and managing our top female talent. In 2018
we will develop our Learning Academy through which
opportunities will continue to be offered on a gender
neutral basis.

•  We develop all our managers regardless of gender.

From June to December 2017 65 male and 73 females
attended formal management development courses.

Retaining our talent
We already know that CEGA staff view diversity as 
important. 2018 has already heralded a significant 
step towards increasing the visibility of our welfare 
agenda which will highlight diversity and inclusion  
as important aspects of working life. 

CEGA will continue to operate a transparent annual 
bonus system central to which is the achievement of 
objectives through which performance is measured 
irrespective of gender. In addition to this we will develop 
our pay-for-performance systems to increase  
their transparency. 

We are generally supportive of part-time or compressed 
hours on return to work after maternity leave, and 
look favourably on requests from males with family 
responsibilities. 

We will continue this stance even if it contributes in part 
to a bonus gap.

Summary
We realise that none of these initiatives will, on their own, remove the gender pay 
gap entirely but CEGA is committed to a diverse workforce governed by lawful 
pay systems based on merit and do not make distinctions between males and 
females on the basis of gender. Any further initiatives launched throughout the 
year will be communicated to staff at the appropriate time.

Signed

I, Alistair Hardie, Chief Executive, confirm that the information in this 
statement is accurate.

Date

28 March 2018 

Funtington Park, Cheesmans Lane, Funtington,  
Chichester, West Sussex, PO18 8UE, UK

info@cegagroup.com  |  cegagroup.com

