CURTIS BANKS LIMITED
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

APPROVED FOR INVESTOR USE | FEBRUARY 2018

This year, for the first time, all UK organisations with over 250 employees will publish their gender pay
gap data. This is a very important step forward because if companies are transparent about pay, and
identify the root causes of any pay gap, they can find solutions they need to build businesses that
reflect society.

Naturally we want to understand our pay gap and what is driving it so that we can create a culture that
attracts and retains the best people. We will continue to address any pay gap through good HR
practices and investigating the underlying reasons.

Curtis Banks has a positive approach to flexible working and employs a significant proportion of part
time employees. At 5 April 2017, 14% of our female and 0% of our male relevant employees chose to
work reduced hours. This does impact our mean bonus gap, as reduced hours staff receive a pro-rated
bonus to reflect the number of hours they work. If the bonus gap was calculated based on the bonus
these employees received if they worked full time, our overall mean bonus gap would reduce from
36.5% to 34.5%.

We are confident that both men and women are paid equally for carrying out equivalent roles. We are
also confident that we have a fair and consistent bonus allocation process. However, there are
currently fewer women than men in senior roles which creates a gender pay gap and we are keen to
address this. We have recruitment and promotion processes in place which aim to ensure that we
attract diversity to the business and that all our staff have the same opportunities to progress within
the business. We will continue to work hard to develop all staff through one to one development,
structured training, support for external examinations and in-role development.

Curtis Banks Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is registered in England and Wales (number 6758825). The registered office
address is 3 Temple Quay, Bristol, BS1 6DZ, United Kingdom. Tel: 0117 910 7910 Fax: 0117 929 2514. We may record and monitor calls. Call charges will vary.

www.curtisbanks.co.uk

1

CONTINUED

The table below shows the overall median and mean gender pay based on hourly rates of pay as at 5
April 2017 and also for bonuses paid in the year to 5 April 2017.

27.8% Mean gender pay gap
7.0% Median gender pay gap
36.5% Mean bonus gender pay gap
8.3% Median bonus gender pay gap

The table below shows the proportion of males and females in each quartile of pay band.

Top quartile

Male
Female
Upper middle quartile Male
Female
Lower middle quartile Male
Female
Male
Female

Lower quartile

52%
48%
49%
51%
43%
57%
33%
67%

The final table shows the percentage of males and females receiving a bonus payment.

80.5% Percentage of males awarded a bonus
85.1% Percentage of females awarded a bonus

Further information on gender pay gap reporting can be found at www.gov.uk/guidance/gender-pay-
gap-reporting-overview.

Contact Details
If you’d like to speak to us about anything on this fact sheet, please contact:
Jane Glover – Senior Consultant, Camarco
T 020 3757 4990
E Jane.glover@camarco.co.uk
Please remember not to send any personal, financial or banking information via email as it is not a
secure method of communication.

2

