£

DRS GENDER PAY 

GAP REPORT 

2017

CHRIS CONNELLY
INTERIM MD

As we move forward into the next exciting phase of our 
company’s development, it is vital that we harness the huge 
amount of talent and commitment that each and every one of our 
team brings to the business. 
This piece of work together with our ED&I and company surveys 
highlight the journey we intend to take to ensure that we retain, 
develop and attract the very best people and provide an environment 
where each and every one of us feels valued, appropriately rewarded 
and respected. 
We will be working hard to ensure action plans and effective 
communication lines are established and we look forward to reporting 
our progress towards our goals.

Introduction    Gender Pay Gap VS Equal Pay   The DRS Gender Pay Gap   Explaining the DRS Gender Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017What is the difference between the 

gender pay gap and equal pay?

Gender Pay Gap

This report deals with the gender pay gap. This is the 

differences in the average hourly rate of pay between male 
employees and female employees. The gender pay gap is 
reported on both mean (average) and median (mid-point 

on a distribution) basis.     

Equal Pay

UK law has since 1970s, prohibited paying different 
amounts to men and women who are doing ‘like work’, 
‘work of equal value’ or ‘work rated as equivalent’ unless 
there is ‘genuine material factor’ for the difference. This is 

not the same as a gender pay gap. 

Introduction    Gender Pay Gap VS Equal Pay   The DRS Gender Pay Gap   Explaining the DRS Gender Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 The DRS Gender Pay Gap

Number of DRS Employees: 421 

21%

DRS Gender Pay Gap

356 Male 

65 Female

17.4%

Pay Gap in the UK*

The overall gender pay gap for DRS when 

comparing mean pay, is 21%. 

This is more than the national average* of 

17.4%.  

The median pay gap is 40% compared to 

the national average* of 18.4% 

(*according to the October 2017 Office for 
National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of 

Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures).

Gender Breakdown 

Per Quartile:

Upper
94% Male
6% Female

Lower Middle

89% Male
11% Female

Upper Middle

96% Male
4% Female

Lower
59% Male
41% Female

Introduction    Gender Pay Gap VS Equal Pay   The DRS Gender Pay Gap   Explaining the DRS Gender Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Explaining the DRS 
Gender Pay Gap
 This year the appointment of females into senior grades has increased and we are 
developing a mid-term action plan to attract a more diverse range of candidates 
for vacancies and to develop our employees across all grades. DRS employs 65 
females and 55 (84%) of these are in the lower half of pay bands, compared to 
16% in the upper half. This highlights the fact that DRS employ considerably more 
men than women in our senior, engineering and train crew grades. 
 
Distribution of bonuses across males and females 
100% of DRS employees do receive some form of bonus. The under 
representation of females in senior roles also impacts on our gender bonus pay 
gap. The mean bonus gap is 21% and the median bonus gap is 45%.
 

Addressing the Gender 
Pay Gap

DRS recognises the benefits that a diverse range of backgrounds and 
experiences brings to a company, as well as the importance of inclusivity. 
We have implemented a number of actions:

•

•

•

Reviewed recruitment processes – introduced inclusive imagery, word choices 
and social media advertising 

Reviewed people policies to increase attraction, development and retention 

Appointed an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion champion; introduced an EDI 
Action Team; implemented an EDI Action Plan

Our 
Mid-Term 
Plan:
Continue to review our 
processes, policies, 
working arrangements and 
environments to attract, 
develop and retain the best 
candidates from all protected 
characteristic groups
Look to internally develop 
where possible, before 
considering off the street 
applications for train crew 
grades whilst continuing to 
support the DRS train crew 
progression programme
Work closely with other 
organisations within the rail 
industry to share best practice 
and review processes to reduce 
any assessment gender bias

•

•

•

Introduction    Gender Pay Gap VS Equal Pay   The DRS Gender Pay Gap   Explaining the DRS Gender Pay Gap

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 Direct Rail Services 
communications@drsl.co.uk 
tel. 01228 406600
Communications
Direct Rail Services Ltd
Regents Court
Baron Way
Carlisle
CA6 4SJ
Copyright © 2018 Direct Rail Services

safe secure reliable

