 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

       

 

2017 GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

The  Sherborne  School  Group  recognises  that  to  pursue  its  commitment  to  equality  of  opportunity  for  all 
staff, it must support equality through fair pay. We are confident that men and women are paid equally for 
doing the same job within the Group, however, the greater proportion of women in lower paid roles creates 
a gender pay gap. 

Headline gender pay gap figures 
The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean or median hourly rate of pay that male 
and female employees receive as at 5 April 2017. 
 
The mean pay gap is the difference between average hourly earnings between men and women. Across the 
Sherborne Group women earn 28.7% less than men. 
 
The median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly earnings of men and 
women. Across the Sherborne Group the midpoint is 48.7% less for women than men.  
 
Proportion of male and female staff in each pay quartile 
This chart shows the gender split between men and women when hourly pay is ordered from highest to 
lowest in four equal quartiles as at 5 April 2017. 
 

[VALUE] 

34.1% 

51.4% 

48.6% 

25.5% 

32.1% 

74.5% 

67.9% 

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Male

Female

 

 
 
 

Sherborne School is required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.This involves carrying out six calculations in accordance with the Regulations  that show the difference between 
the average earnings of men and women in our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employees data. 

 

Bonus payments and proportion of male and female employees receiving a bonus payment    
Fitness  instructors  in  the  Sports  Centre  have  a  specific  bonus  scheme  but  otherwise  bonuses  are  not 
routinely paid within the Group.  In the year to 5 April 2017, 4.6% of men were paid a bonus and 0.6% of 
women. 
 
The mean bonus gap is the difference between the average bonus paid to men and women. Across the 
Sherborne Group women’s bonuses were 88.9% lower than men’s. 
 
The  median  bonus  gap  is the  difference  between the  midpoints in the ranges of bonuses  paid to men 
and women. Across the Sherborne Group the midpoint is 80.3% less for women than men.  
 
Why we have a gender pay gap 
The  main  reason  for our  gender  gap  is  an  imbalance  of  male  and  female  staff across  the  organisation. 
Although  45%  of  Sherborne  School’s  Senior  Leadership  Team  are  currently  women,  there  are  fewer 
women  in  senior  teaching  roles  than  men.  There  is  also  a  higher  proportion  of  women  to  men  in  the 
lower paid roles many of which are term time only and which nearly always only attract women.        
 
What we are doing to address the pay gap 
The Sherborne Group’s recruitment and pay policies and procedures are designed to achieve equality of 
opportunity  and  fairness  for  all.  Teaching  staff  are  paid  in  accordance  with  a  teaching  scale.  Pay  for 
support  staff  roles  are  based  on  job  evaluation  and  is  regularly  reviewed  against  national  and  local 
benchmarks to ensure that pay appropriately reflects the value and complexity of the work undertaken. 
Changes  within  the  last  few  years  to  the  teaching  scales  and to  the  basis  for calculating  some  support 
staff pay, both of which were  implemented  to achieve equal pay for the same job, means  that a small 
number  of  staff  which  includes  both  men  and  women  are  paid  in  accordance  with  historic  pay  rates.   
Each year the number of staff to which this applies decreases. 
 
The Group will use the gender pay data to monitor changes to the balance of men and women across the 
organisation  and  review  its  recruitment,  development  and  pay  policies  as  part  of  its  continuing 
commitment to equality of opportunity in the workplace. 
 
Lucy Robins 
Bursar 
28 March 2018 

