Agilent Technologies LDA UK Limited 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

At Agilent, We Value Diversity

 As a global company with 14,000 employees in more than 30 countries,  Agilent has a 

broad and varied workforce.  Through experience, we know that diversity brings strength 

and helps us realize our full potential.  Innovation results when people who have 

different experiences, perspectives and cultures work together. A diverse workforce 

expands the company's base of knowledge, skills and understanding. 

    

We want Agilent to be recognised as a great place to work.  We are a community and 

our aim is for all Agilent employees to have a fair and equal opportunity to excel and 

  

enjoy a successful career- regardless of gender or any other attribute. 
 

UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting Requirements
 Beginning 6 April 2017, the UK Goverment requires UK employers with more than 250 

employees to review gender pay information and publish the following figures annually: 
 

A. Gender pay gap (mean and median)
B. Gender bonus gap (mean and median)
C. Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses
D. Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation's structure

 

 

 

  

We welcome this focus on pay equity and see the annual reporting as a valuable 

opportunity to capture and reflect on our ongoing internal activity.  Below, you will find 

our Gender Pay Report for 2017 for Agilent's UK employer, Agilent Technologies LDA UK 

Ltd which, at the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, employed a total of 372 people; 267 

men (72% workforce) and 105 women (28% workforce). 

 

 

Agilent’s 2017 UK Gender Pay Gap Report 

Mean and Median Pay Gap1

C. Proportion of Employees Receiving Bonus3

Mean  Median 

A. Gender Pay Gap

21.6% 

26.9% 

B. Gender Bonus Gap2 7.9% 

34.4% 

1 The gender pay gap shows the difference between the mean (average) and 
median  (mid-point)  pay  and  bonus  earnings  of  male  and  female 
employees. The gap is expressed as a percentage of male employees earnings.  
2  The  prescribed  calculation  method  has  a  negative  impact  on  the reported 
bonus  payments  as  it  is  not  permissible  to  adjust  to  a  full-time equivalent 
bonus  figure  for  part-time  employees,  the  majority  of  whom  are female.  

 
 
 

100 

80 

60 

40 

20 

0 

95.1% 
 
 

92.4% 
 
 

Male 

Female 

 
 
 

3 Eligibility for bonuses included in this section vary based on criteria 
other than gender.  For example, all Agilent employees (regardless of 
gender) are eligible to receive a company bonus provided that they are 
in employment on the internal bonus reference date.  The fact that 
different percentages are shown in this graph relate to timing of hire. 

 
 

D. Proportion of Men and Women in Each Quartile of the Organisation’s Pay Structure 4

Quartile 

Lower 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Upper 

% Female 

% Male 

46% 

54% 

26% 

74% 

24% 

76% 

17% 

83% 

4 Organising the employee population from lowest hourly rate of pay to the highest, in order, then dividing into four equal sized groups give 
 
  
 
s the four "quartiles".  These are then broken down by the proportion of male and female employees in each.

 
 

Gender Pay Gap And Equal Pay 
Are Different! 
The gender pay gap is an equality 
measure which shows the difference 
in average pay and bonuses of all 
men and women across the whole 
workforce.  It does not indicate an 
equal pay problem - which is where 
men and women are paid differently 
for comparable work. Agilent works 
to ensure that all employees are paid 
equally for equal work through robust 
and transparent pay and benefit 
review processes (including external 
benchmarking and range setting). 

Equal Pay 
When  reviewing  pay  for  our  current  employees  (as  of  March  2018),  we  find  that  the 
difference in salary for males and females is not significantly different5 for those performing 
the same roles. 
 

 

 

 

We believe this analysis of pay in equivalent roles is the most relevant way to assess pay 
 
equality and the results indicate that the pay for males and females at Agilent is comparable. 

 

 

 
5 Regression analysis does not show a statistically significant difference. 

Assessing and Addressing 
Agilent’s Gender Pay Gap 

Assessing our Gender Pay Gap 
Agilent’s mean gender pay gap of 21.6% is slightly higher than the UK national average of 18.1%.  We have reviewed our 
pay to understand more about the reason for the gap.  We believe it exists predominantly because of an unequal 
distribution of men and women throughout the workforce.  Most crucially, we see an under-representation of women in 
senior and managerial positions which typically attract higher levels of pay and bonus.  Only 8 out of 105 (or 7.6%) female 
employees in the UK are employed in management roles compared to 51 out of 267 (or 19.0%) male employees.  In 
addition, a further 18 women are employed in non-management roles classified by Agilent as “gated” due to their advanced 
nature/key business need compared with 75 male roles in the same category6. 

 

Addressing our Gender Pay Gap 
In the UK (as well as throughout Agilent globally), we work to ensure that employees are paid comparably for equal work 
and are working to continually improve our diversity in all areas – not just gender balance.  We are already taking steps to 
enable a diverse and inclusive workforce by: 

• CREATING a flexible and supportive working

environment which enables employees to thrive at work
and maintain commitments beyond the office.  We do
this through the following practices:

•

Implementing a number of family friendly
policies, including enhanced maternity, adoption
and paternity leave policies, as well as shared
parental leave.

• Giving all employees the right to request flexible

working arrangements (not only those employees
with a legal right to request).

• GROWING an inclusive and respectful corporate culture.

We want all Agilent employees to experience a shared
sense of belonging, regardless of background or
personal attributes.  We acknowledge that we all have a
part to play in achieving this goal:

• We are working with managers in key business

areas (for example, those areas that have
typically been male dominated or demonstrate
limited diversity such as in Sales or Support
organisations) to develop targeted action plans
for improvement.

•

INVESTING in achieving our goal of continuing to build
an even more diverse and inclusive company:

• Agilent has appointed a Global Diversity &

Inclusion Manager, dedicated to reviewing and
monitoring Agilent’s progress against our
diversity goals and continually driving initiatives
focused on improvement.

• FOCUSING actively on the issue of pay equity and

 

looking for opportunities to demonstrate our
commitment to equitable pay– for example, as we review
and design our policies and programs, as we implement
manager awareness training and as we actively
search for opportunities to further support our commitment
to diversity.

 

• RECOGNISING that Agilent’s core value of uncompromising

 

integrity supports our commitment to gender and pay
equality by publicising our objectives
and being accountable for the results.

 

• COMMITTING to advance diversity and inclusion in all our

 

workplaces from the highest level in the company – our CEO
Mike McMullen has publicly pledged to act on this goal
https://www.ceoaction.com/ceos/

We recognize there is more to do and we are committed to continuing this important journey towards greater diversity in 
all aspects of our workforce – including through an improved gender balance. 

Click here to find out more about Diversity at Agilent. 
  

6 These are Agilent “Individual Contributor” roles internally classified at “Expert” level and higher. 
  

Statement 
We confirm that Agilent’s Gender Pay Gap calculations are accurate and have been compiled in accordance with The 
 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 and the Guidance on Managing Gender Pay Reporting 
jointly published by the Arbitration and Conciliation Services (ACAS) and Government Equalities Office in December 2017. 

Neil Rees 
VP & UK Country General Manager 

Karen Waddell 
UK & Ireland HR Manager 

