Gender Pay Gap 2017 Report 

United Kingdom 

Introduction  

We recognize that the world in which we operate is 
complex  and  diverse.  Championing  an  inclusive 
culture is essential to our collective success. To build 
a  dynamic  workplace,  we  are  creating  a  culture 
where  people  of  all  backgrounds  come  together  to 
do  their  best  work.  By  embracing  our  authentic 
selves and respecting our differences, we are able to 
harness our individual and collective potential, drive 
creativity and innovation and foster an environment 
for our employees to do their best. 
 
We  value  diversity  and  believe  that  an  inclusive 
workplace that values and celebrates our differences 
is essential to our growth and long-term success. We 
support  an  environment  where  people  of  all  races, 
ethnicities,  gender,  sexual  orientation  or  preference 
come together. 
 
We  foster  a  company  culture  that  values  boldness, 
creativity  and  a  passion  for  beauty.  We  encourage 
employees  to  bring  their  best,  authentic  selves  to 
work every day. 
 

Advocating for Women  

An  early  feminist  and  advocate  of  women’s  rights, 
Elizabeth Arden famously provided red lipstick to the 
suffragettes marching on Fifth Avenue in 1912. Since 
those  early  days,  the  Company  has  built  on  the 
fearless  female  founder’s  legacy  of  advocating  for 
women  and  Ms.  Arden’s  sprit  lives  on  in  the  March 
On  campaign  today.  In  partnership  with  Reese 
Witherspoon and UN Women, using a red lipstick as 
a  powerful  symbol  of  unity  and  advocacy,  the 
campaign  celebrates  women’s  achievements  around 
the world.  

2 

United Kingdom 

Diversity and Inclusion  
Diversity and inclusion are fundamental to creating products 
that reflect our customers around the world.  
 

Our company is committed to the principles of equal 
employment opportunity and all employment decisions 
including compensation, benefits and advancement are based 
on individual qualifications without regard to gender or other 
legally protected status or characteristics. 
 

We are proud that among the senior leadership of our parent 
company,  Revlon,  women  make  up  60  percent  of  the 
company’s  executive  leadership  team,  as  well  as  37  percent 
of its board of directors. 

 

Women also make up nearly 60 percent of all manager-level 
professionals  within  the  parent  company.  We  aim  to  attract 
and  retain  the  top  talent  within  the  beauty  care  industry  as 
well as afford each of our employees the opportunity to grow 
and develop into leaders.  

 

 

 

38%  

WOMEN  
ON THE BOARD OF     
DIRECTORS 

56%  

67%  

WOMEN  
ON THE EXECUTIVE 
LEADERSHIP TEAM 

WOMEN  
ON THE UK  
LEADERSHIP TEAM 

60%  

OF MANAGERS  
ARE WOMEN  

56%  

OF UK MANAGERS  
ARE WOMEN  

3 

United Kingdom 

What is The Gender Pay Gap? 

The gender pay gap measures the difference between 
the average earnings of women and men across 
Elizabeth Arden UK, which is expressed as a 
percentage of men’s earnings. The report includes the 
differences in mean and median earnings between 
women and men calculated on the basis of equivalent 
hourly rates.  
 

In addition to measuring the mean and median pay gap, 
this report includes: 

 

• The proportion of men and women in each of the four 

pay quartiles  

• The mean and median bonus bonus gender pay gap 

• The proportion of women and men who received 

bonus pay 

 

 

 

 

4 

United Kingdom 

Statutory Disclosure Summary  

Understanding the Numbers 

% Male/Female Employees  

96.2% female 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

Median Bonus Pay Gap 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap 

32.97% 

45.02% 

-31.03% 

43.68% 

% Males/Females Receiving Bonus 
Payment 

68.75% male 
79.95% female 

Upper Quartile* (Male/Females) 

Upper Middle 
Quartile*(Male/Females) 

Lower Middle  Quartile 
*(Male/Females) 

Lower Quartile * (Male/Females) 

* Quartiles are based on hourly pay rates 

9.62 % male 
90.38% female 

2.88% male 
97.12% female 

2.88% male 
97.12% female 

0% male 
100% female 

• In roles where we have males and females employed in 

comparable roles with comparable responsibilities, there is 
no pay gap. 
 

• Of the total UK workforce in Elizabeth Arden of 416, 

approx. 354 people work as Beauty Consultants in 
department stores, many in part time positions.  These roles 
are competitively paid, however, they reflect the salary 
norms of the retail environment, and are amongst the lowest 
paid roles in our UK organization.   

 

• Over 98% of the Beauty Consultants are women. This 

concentration of female employees  in these roles skews the 
calculations comparing what men and women are paid and 
contributes to any apparent pay gap. The mean hourly rate of 
male and female employees in the Beauty Consultant 
population alone, reflects no gender pay gap. 

 

• If you were to exclude the Beauty Consultant population, our 
mean pay gap would be  14.44%/with the median pay gap at 
9.63%.  These figures are below the reported UK Median 
average of 18.8% (mean 17.7%). 

 

 

 

5 

United Kingdom 

Promoting Gender Equity 

• We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of our 

employees around the world and to creating a safe, respectful 
and inclusive workplace. 

 

• Our office based employees are offered flexible working patterns 

to support working parents (parental leave/adoption leave, 
dependent leave). 

 

• Enhanced Maternity and Paternity Leave is offered of our 

corporate employees 

 

• We believe in continuous learning and development from our 

newest employees to our most seasoned executives. Our 
commitment to talent development includes mobility of all 
employees across brands, geographies and functions. 

 

• We have instituted policies including an employee Code of 

Conduct and Business Ethics and an Anti-Discrimination/Anti-
Harassment policy to set the standard for fair and ethical 
behavior  in the workplace. 

 

 

6 

United Kingdom 

“I  view  the  government’s  regulation  and  initiative  to  require 
that companies of a certain size to report their data on Gender 
Pay  Gap,  as  a  positive  step  to  ensure  equality  in  the 
workplace and believe that this level of transparency will help 
to ensure inclusive workplaces for all employees.  
 
Gender  equality  is  at  the  very  core  of  the  DNA  of  Elizabeth 
Arden,  whose  founder  was  an  entrepreneur,  advocate  and 
early champion for women’s rights and opportunity. From the 
earliest  days  of  its  founding,  like  the  landmark  moment  in 
1912  when  Elizabeth  Arden  marched  down  5th  Avenue  for 
equality  and  handed  out  red  lipstick,  to  the  suffragettes  as  a 
symbol of solidarity, through to today’s #togetherwemarchon 
campaign  in  support  of  UN  Women,  the  brand  has  been  a 
tireless supporter of women’s empowerment.  
 
As  you  will  see  from  the  statistics  provided,  our  Elizabeth 
Arden  UK  business  has  a  predominantly  female  work  force 
with only 16 males in total workforce of 416 employees. Due 
to the nature of our business, a very high concentration of our 
workforce  are  Beauty  Consultants  in  department  stores, 
which  drives  the  gap  published  this  report.  However,  when 
further  analysis  is  completed  and  we  benchmark  gender  pay 
gaps  by  role  there  is  no  pay  gap  between  Male  &  Female 
employees in comparative roles. 
 
 
 
 

Further, 66.66 per cent of the UK senior leadership are women 
and  in  2017  we  rewarded  a  higher  percentage  of  Female 
employees with bonuses, than their male colleagues. 
 
Our  aim  is  to  encourage  talent,  regardless  of  background  or 
gender,  to  reach  their  full  potential  in  an  inclusive  and 
rewarding workplace.” 

Paul Devin 
Managing Director UK 

Declaration 
We confirm that the information and data reported are accurate and in line with the 
UK government’s Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Information) Regulations 2017.  

Tony Hayek 
VP International  
Human Resources 

7 

