Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report
Gender pay gap reporting requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory 
calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female 
employees.
Glenside is proud to demonstrate its equality, fairness and openness in relation to gender pay.   
We are confident that as we continue to monitor and reflect the gender pay gap it will continue to 
remain at a sustainable level.
Pay & Bonus Gap

Difference between male and female employees

Mean *
18.7%
‐14.3%

0.9%
Hourly pay
0.0%
Staff Referral Bonuses paid
The table above shows our overall mean (commonly known as average) and median gender pay 
gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date (5th April 2017).  It also reflects the mean 
(average) and median difference between bonuses paid to male and female employees at Glenside 
up to the same date.

Median **

The mean, or average, hourly pay is skewed by a small number of medical consultants, the impact 
of which is amplified due to the relatively low number of employees within the organisation. If 
these consultants are removed from the statistics, the mean, or average, gender pay gap would 
reduce to 4.5%. This is significantly below the national average of 18.1%.
The median pay gap of 0.9% is much more representative of the equality across the organisation as 
a whole . Whilst the mean (average) pay gap is skewed by outliers as referred to above, the median 
pay gap is a better measure to be used where sample sizes are relatively small and they include 
outliers. By identifying the wage of the middle earner, the median is the best representation of the 
‘typical’ gender difference. 
Proportion of employees in receipt of a bonus for 2016/17
(all bonuses paid in relation to staff referral bonuses)

1%

3%

1.3%

3.4%

employees who 
received a bonus

 employees who did 
not receive a bonus

99%

97%

The above information shows a 2% difference between the number of male and female employees 
being paid a staff referral bonus in 2016/17.  Whilst the proportion of employees receiving a bonus 
is small, it accurately reflects the gender distribution across Glenside.

Glenside enables people to reach their full potential

Our Vision: Compassionate, Inclusive, Continuously Learning

Our Values: Person Centred, Quality Safety, Supporting Empowering Staff

Pay Quartiles

Lower

23%

Lower middle
19%

Upper middle
22%

Upper

23%

77%

81%

78%

77%

‐0.5% pay gap

0.0% pay gap

‐3.0% pay gap

32.4% pay gap

The above graphs illustrate the gender distribution at Glenside across four equally sized quartiles, 
each containing 90 individuals.  As can be seen, whilst there are more females employed than 
males, the pay distribution demonstrates the consistency of gender across all quartiles.

The 32.4% pay gap in the upper quartile includes the medical consultants referred to above. If 
these consultants are excluded, the pay gap is 12.1%, indicative of the gender balance in senior 
roles.

Our Statement
Glenside is confident that male and female employees are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs 
across our business. 

Christina Walsh, Chief Executive Officer, comments:
"We are delighted that our first gender pay gap report demonstrates our ongoing commitment to 
ensure all our staff regardless of gender receive equal pay for the same roles.

Our Gender Pay Gap figures have been calculated using the mechanisms that are set out in the 
gender pay gap reporting legislation. I confirm that these figures have been verified and checked 
thoroughly to ensure complete accuracy."

*Mean is sometimes called the average, is calculated by adding up all the hourly pay rates and dividing by the number of employees
**Median looks at all employee hourly rates in numerical order and is the hourly rate at the middle of those hourly rates

