Gender Pay 
Gap Report

Gender Pay Gap Report

About Wilkins Kennedy
Wilkins Kennedy was established in 1882 and has grown to become one of  
the UK’s top 20 firms of chartered accountants. From its 17 offices throughout 
London and the South of England, it provides accounting, tax and business advice  
to owner-managed and middle-market companies.

The firm has a turnover of £47 million, over 70 partners and over 600 members  
of staff, and is one of the fastest-growing, top 20 accountancy firms in the UK. 

In addition to accountancy and audit services, Wilkins Kennedy provides tax and 
business advice as well as a range of specialist services such as corporate  
finance, payroll, forensic accounting, HR advice and insolvency.

Employers with more than 250 employees are legally required to publish their 
gender pay gap. Gender pay gap reporting is not about equal pay for men 
and women doing the same work – we are an equal pay employer, but 
still have a gender pay gap. It is about creating transparency of pay, 
identifying areas where gender imbalances exist and implementing 
appropriate remedial measures.

As a firm that is fully committed to equality of opportunity, we aim to 
employ the best people and to ensure that all employees are able to 
contribute to their maximum potential irrespective of gender, race, 
ethnic or national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation or age.

Gender Pay Gap Report

On our data collection date (5 April 2017), our workforce consisted of 607 staff  
of which 349 were women and 258 were men.

According to the 2017 Financial Reporting Council report Key Facts and Trends in the 
Accountancy Profession, female membership of the main accountancy bodies is 49% 
at student level, but this figure falls to only 35% for overall membership.

As a firm, we place a high value on work-life balance. It forms a strong part of 
our culture and we believe that our commitment to flexible working contributes 
significantly to our high retention of female employees and our predominantly  
female workforce.

258 male employees

349 female employees

43%
57%

Gender Pay Gap Report

Gender pay gap overview
Gender pay reporting is about listing all male salaries and all 
female salaries (ranked highest to lowest) and calculating 
the mean and median in each list. The gender pay gap is the 
percentage difference between these figures. The purpose of 
the exercise is to identify the gender balance; at WK, we have  
a higher proportion of males in higher paid senior roles.

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus:

Males

10.5%

Females

7.2%

 
Gender pay gap  20.7% 

Mean 

Median
26.2%

 
Gender bonus
pay gap 

Mean 

73.2% 

Median
6.2%

A few exceptional bonus payments for the 12-month period to 
5 April 2017 have skewed the gender bonus pay gap.

Gender Pay Gap Report

Proportion of Males and Females 
in Each Pay Quartile

39%

61%

55%

45%

74%

26%

62%

38%

Upper quartile

Upper middle quartile

Lower middle quartile

Lower quartile

Gender Pay Gap Report

Closing the gap
As is common in the accounting profession, our gender pay gap is primarily due 
to having too few female employees in our most senior roles. We will also use 
appropriate tools to monitor pay and ensure there is no bias towards either gender 
from the point of recruitment right through to salary conversations and progression 
opportunities.

We offer a range of flexible work arrangements to help our staff to achieve work/
life balance, while meeting our business demands. We will continue to actively 
encourage flexible working across our firm, in every role, at every level, to 
ensure that our staff have the opportunity to work in a way that works best 
for their career aspirations and home life.

Confirmation
I confirm that Wilkins Kennedy’s gender pay gap 
calculations are accurate and meet the requirements 
of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

 
 
 
David Fenn, Managing Partner

For more information www.wilkinskennedy.com

