 

 

 

 

Liberata Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Pay and bonus pay gap 
 
The mean and median hourly gender pay gap as at 5th April 2017 and the mean 
and median bonus gap in respect of bonuses paid in the 12 months to 5th April 
2017 for Liberata UK Limited are shown below.  
 

 

Hourly Pay  

Bonus Pay 

Mean 

30.4% 

90.5% 

Median 

0.0% 

64.5% 

 
 
Proportion of male and female employees who received bonus pay 
 
 

Male 

7.9% 

Female 

3.0% 

 
Proportion  of  male  and  female  employees  according  to  quartile  pay 
bands 
 
 

 

Gender make up 

 

 

 

 

Male 

Female 

31.5% 

68.5% 

 

 

 

 

Hourly Pay 
Quartiles 
Lower 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Upper 

Male 

Female 

30.2% 

32.1% 

23.3% 

40.6% 

69.8% 

67.9% 

76.7% 

59.4% 

 
 
Liberata  wholeheartedly  supports  the  principle  of  equality  of  opportunities  in 
employment  and  opposes  all  forms  of  unlawful  or  unfair  discrimination.    We 
believe that it is in the best interests of Liberata and those who work within it to 
ensure  that  the  talents  and  skills  available  from  the  whole  community  are 
considered  when  employment  and  promotion  opportunities  arise.    As  an 
organisation we are committed to the principle of transparency in eliminating the 
gender pay gap within the UK and creating equality in the average  of men and 
women’s pay.   
 
Our data shows that our gender pay gap and bonus pay gap are largely due to 
the fact that a higher percentage of Liberata’s senior roles are performed by men 
and  these  roles  usually  offer  a  higher  overall  pay.  There  are  also  more  women 
than men in roles attracting lower pay. 
     

 

Liberata UK Limited  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Liberata wishes to further understand the factors that influence our  gender pay 
gap  which  will  inform  the  steps  we  take  to  address  any  imbalance  across  our 
business.   
 
Fairness and equality is central to our core values.  Where possible, our job roles 
are evaluated in accordance with the Liberata job evaluation scheme which is a 
systematic method of determining the value/worth of a job role in comparison to 
other jobs within the organisation. The scheme informs the development of a fair 
pay system in order to establish a rational pay structure. Liberata recognises that 
we  have  more  work  to  do  in  order  to  address  our  bonus  pay  gap  and  move 
towards gender balance throughout all levels of the organisation.   
 
As  one  of  the  UK’s  leading  outsourcing  providers,  a  percentage  of  Liberata’s 
workforce  has  TUPE  transferred  from  a  range  of  public  and  private  sector 
employers  and  we  are  committed  to  ensuring  that  employment  rights  are 
protected  in  accordance  with  the  Transfer  of  Undertakings  (Protection  of 
Employment) Regulations.      
  
I confirm that the gender pay gap data included in this report is accurate and has 
been prepared in accordance with the regulations. 
 
 

 

 
 
Charlie Bruin 
Chief Executive Officer 
Liberata UK Limited 

 
 
 

 

 

Liberata UK Limited  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

