GENDER  
PAY REPORT
2018

1. Introduction

At St George’s, the diversity of the people 
within our community is one of our 
key strengths. We believe the range of 
perspectives that come from the different 
backgrounds, experiences, opinions and 
beliefs of our staff and students enables us to 
thrive as a university.
Since appointing our first female Principal, 
Professor Jenny Higham in 2016, we have 
made progress in our approach to diversity 
and inclusion. However, we have further to go. 
Diversity and inclusion is at the core of our 
strategy, and closing our gender pay gap is an 
institutional priority for us.

We will work to understand the causes of the 
pay gap, and commit to undertaking a sustained 
programme of action to address disparities, 
while continuing to foster a workplace in which 
diversity is valued and everyone is supported 
to fulfil their potential. We will be taking steps 
to ensure that our remuneration and reward 
practices are fair and free of gender bias, as well 
as work to improve the gender balance across all 
areas and levels within the organisation. 
Our commitment to this work is unrelenting and 
we have set ourselves ambitious targets to close 
the pay gap. 

2. Gender Pay Outcomes

Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, it is 
mandatory for organisations with more than 250 employees to report their gender pay gap 
annually. For the 2018 report, all organisations in the public sector, including universities, are 
required to take a snapshot of data on 31 March 2017 on which an analysis of the pay gap must 
be undertaken. 

The university employed 699 members of staff at the snapshot date, 289 men and 410 women.

Gender pay gap, based on hourly rates of pay

Mean

Median

14.2%

12.8%

Gender bonus gap

Mean

Median

48.8%

89.4%

Proportion receiving a bonus

Male

7.6%

Female

6.1%

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile

MEN

WOMEN

Band A 
(lowest)

31.0%

Band B

37.4%

Band C

41.3%

69.0%

62.6%

58.7%

Band D  
(Highest)

58.7%

41.3%

We have been monitoring how our pay gap has 
been changing over the past four years. While 
we do not have directly comparable data to that 
required by the statutory reporting requirements, 
we have seen a consistent overall pay gap 
reduction over this period.  
Sixteen per cent of our staff are employed on 
pay scales which are set by the NHS, rather than 
the university. We do not have influence over 
these pay levels. For the rest of our staff, we are 
taking steps wherever we can to ensure that our 
remuneration and reward practices are free of 
gender bias.
The disproportionately high number of female 
staff in the lowest quartile inevitably informs the 
gender pay gap. We will undertake further work 
to understand the impact of any occupational 
segregation. The underrepresentation of female 
staff in senior positions is a long-standing issue 
within the sector, and one that St George’s is 
taking positive steps to address. In the past 
four years, the number of female professors 
at St George’s has increased from 17.5% to 
30.8%, demonstrating the impact of our work on 
progression, recruitment and promotion.
The gender pay gap is more significant in our 
research institutes as compared with other 
parts of the university, for example professional 

services. In addition, we have found that the 
gender pay gap at St George’s increases with 
higher age bands, particularly for employees over 
50. While historic remuneration practices may 
have contributed to this trend, it is clear that 
we need to prioritise this finding and consider 
its relationship to role, occupation, length of 
service, addressing inequities where possible. 
The gender bonus gap outcome reflects different 
challenges. Bonus payments in this context 
comprise Clinical Excellence Awards and Merit 
Awards, of which 29 and 18 were awarded 
respectively.
Clinical Excellence Awards are awards made 
to NHS consultants and academic GPs, who 
are jointly employed by our institution and by 
the NHS. The awards are made to recognise 
clinical performance at an exceptional level. The 
university plays no role in determining the awards 
as they are funded by the NHS. 
Merit Awards are internal awards made by 
St George’s to staff to recognise outstanding 
contribution. 
These awards are significantly different in value 
and the inclusion of both these two very different 
awards as bonus payments therefore skews the 
data considerably, as demonstrated in the table 
below. 

Number of Awards
Average payment
Median gender gap

Clinical Excellence Award

Merit Award

29

£22,124

25%

18

£1,048

36%

Sixty-six per cent of the Clinical Excellence Awards were awarded to male employees, whereas 83% 
of merit awards were paid to female employees. Therefore we recognise the need to ensure a gender 
balance across both these awards, including work to encourage and support our eligible female 
clinical academic staff to apply for Clinical Excellence Awards. 
Since the 2016 Merit Awards round, we have taken action to address any gender disparities by 
reviewing the process to make it more rigorous, evidence-based and structured. The subsequent 
Merit Awards round held in July 2017 (not included within these figures) resulted in a mean and 
median gender bonus gap of -2.4% and -9.1% respectively. 

3. What are we doing to address the gap? 
We are committed to reducing our overall gender  
pay gap by at least a third by 2020. 

 

Actions to address pay disparities 
We have:
n  Introduced fixed allowances for undertaking  
  additional responsibilities to ensure  
  consistency and ensure transparency and  
  parity.
n	 Abolished a historic academic allowance   
 
n	 Committed to undertaking an equal pay  
  audit every three years. The most recent audit  
  was undertaken in 2017.
We will:
n		Establish an equal pay working group to i) 

that was disadvantaging female academics.  

identify specific groups where a pay gap 
exists; ii) understand the causes of the gaps; 
iii) identify specific actions to reduce the gaps; 
iv) prioritise actions and develop milestones, 
timelines and monitoring and reporting for 
each one.

n   Review and monitor our policy for starting 

salaries to ensure both policy and practice are 
gender-bias free and investigate any existing 
anomalies, taking corrective action where 
appropriate.

n   Undertake work to support and encourage 

eligible female clinicians to apply for Clinical 
Excellence Awards.

n   Further review our Merit Awards process as 

part of a wider review of recognition.

Actions to improve the gender balance 
of our workforce 
We have: 
n   Reviewed our academic promotions criteria 

and process to enable more women to 
progress in academic roles. 

n   Introduced unconscious bias training as 

mandatory for members of recruiting panels.

We will: 
n   Increase the number of positions advertised 

as eligible for job sharing .

n   Produce enhanced management information 
to ensure all key HR reports are analysed by 
gender.

n   Develop our career progression offer to female 
staff including mentoring, career coaching and 
leadership development.

n   Introduce career coaching skills training 
for line managers to enable the career 
progression of female staff.

Actions to ensure our workplace 
culture enables everyone to thrive
We have:
n   Strengthened our overall governance and 

leadership of diversity and inclusion resulting 
in a new strategic focus with the gender pay 
gap identified as a key strategic priority.  

n   Increased female representation across all 
our committees, while additionally ensuring 
all committees meet in core hours and 
on different days to maximise attendance 
for those working part time or with family 
responsibilities. 

n   Launched the Thrive campaign to encourage 

debate and dialogue on gender diversity 
issues in the workplace, while showcasing 
female role models, covering topics including 
overcoming progression barriers and work-life 
balance.

We will:
n   Continue to work towards the Athena SWAN 

silver accreditation as part of our overall 
commitment to gender equality and diversity. 
n   Further develop our unconscious bias training 

with a targeted focus on recruitment and 
talent management.

n   Doubled the number of funded places for 

aspiring female leaders to participate in the 
Aurora leadership development programme.   

n	 	Develop and implement an inclusive 

leadership model to underpin all our people 
and culture activity and practices.

