 
 
                     

 

 

 

         

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

January 2018 

 

Last year we refreshed our Trust’s values which are Caring, Learning and Growing.  
We  have  a  Workforce  and  Organisational  Development  Strategy  which  has  4 
strategic priorities: 
 

  Healthy Organisational Culture 
  Capable & Sustainable Workforce 
  Effective Leadership & Management 
  Enabling Transformation & OD 

 
Our  first  priority:  Healthy  Organisational  Culture,  includes  promoting  equality  & 
valuing diversity.  As an organisation we score higher than the national average in 
the staff survey for the percentage of staff believing that the organisation provides 
equal opportunities for career progression or promotion and lower than the national 
average for the percentage of staff experiencing discrimination at work. 
 
Although we have achieved much in creating an environment where people feel we 
provide  equal  opportunities  and  take  action  against  any  discrimination  we  are  not 
complacent and set annual priorities around our Public Sector Equality Duties.   
 
In producing this report we recognise that we have more to do to reduce the gender 
pay  gap  and  we  remain  committed  to  a  workplace  that  respects  and  harnesses 
equality and diversity.  We will work to improve the gender pay gap by undertaking 
the actions set out at the end of this report.  
 
 

 

Sharon Mays  
Trust Chair 
 
 

 
 

   

 
 

Michele Moran 
Chief Executive 

 

 
 

 
 

1                      Caring, Learning and Growing 

 

 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
 
“The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average (mean or median) 
earnings of men and women. This is expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings 
e.g. women earn 15% less than men. Used to its full potential, gender pay gap 
reporting is a valuable tool for assessing levels of equality in the workplace, female 
and male participation, and how effectively talent is being maximised.” 
 
What is the difference between the gender pay gap and equal pay? 
 
“The gender pay gap differs from equal pay. 
 
Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out 
the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people 
unequally because they are a man or a woman.  
 
The gender pay gap shows the differences in the average pay between men and 
women. If a workplace has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can indicate 
there may a number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations may help 
to identify what those issues are. In some cases, the gender pay gap may include 
unlawful inequality in pay but this is not necessarily the case.” 
 
Guidance: Managing Gender Pay Reporting. ACAS 
 
It is a legal requirement for all relevant employers to publish their gender pay report 
within one year of the ‘snapshot’ date: this year’s date being 31st March 2017. 
All employers must comply with the reporting regulations for any year where they 
had a headcount of 250 or more employees on the ‘snapshot’ date. 
Relevant employers must follow the rules in the regulations to calculate the 
following information:  
 

  Their mean gender pay gap  
  Their median gender pay gap  
  Their mean bonus gender pay gap  
  Their median bonus gender pay gap  
  Their proportion of males receiving a bonus payment  
  Their proportion of females receiving a bonus payment  
  Their proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band  
  A written statement, authorised by an appropriate senior person, which 

confirms the accuracy of their calculations. However, this requirement only 
applies to employers subject to the Equality Act 2010 (gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017. 

  
Most NHS trusts will fall into the above category and thus must comply. With this in 
mind, IBM suppliers of the ‘Electronic Staff Record’ have developed a report which 
uses the required calculations to produce the gender pay gap data. 

 

Caring Learning Growing 

 

 

 

Humber NHS Foundation Trust 
Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
 

Below are 4 tables outlining the Trust’s Gender pay Gap, in summary: 
 

  The Trust’s  mean gender pay gap is 11.06% 
  The Trust’s median gender pay gap  is 0.35% 
  The Trust’s mean bonus gender pay gap is -49.32% 
  The Trust’s median bonus gender pay gap is -80.14% 
  The proportion of males receiving a bonus payment is 1.26% 
  The proportion of females receiving a bonus payment is 0.18% 
  The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band is: 

o  Quartile 1: 82.57% Female and 17.43% Male 
o  Quartile 2: 78.06% Female and 21.94% Male 
o  Quartile 3: 81.71% Female and 18.29% Male 
o  Quartile 4: 76.62% Female and 23.38% Male 

 
 

Gender Pay Gap Data 

 

Average & Median Hourly 

 

 
Rates 

 

 

Avg. 
Hourly 
Rate 

 
Median 
Hourly 
Rate 

16.7069  13.4990 
14.8585  13.4509 
0.0480 
0.3557 

1.8484 
11.0637 

Gender 

Male 
Female 
Difference 
Pay Gap 
% 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

Number of employees | Q1 = Low, Q4 = 
 

 

 

 

 

 
High 

 

 
Quartile  Female  Male 

 

 

 

 

 
Female 
% 

 
 
Male 
% 

1  635.00  134.00 
2  619.00  174.00 
3  639.00  143.00 
4  616.00  188.00 

82.57 
78.06 
81.71 
76.62 

17.43 
21.94 
18.29 
23.38 

Gender Pay gap Bonus Data 

 
 
Gender 

 
 
Avg. Pay  Median 

 
 
Pay 

8,290.34 

5,967.20 
12,379.32  10,749.60 
-4,782.40 
-4,088.98 
-49.32 
-80.14 

Male 
Female 
Difference 
Pay Gap 
% 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
Gender  Employees 

 
 
Paid 
Bonus 

Female 
Male 

5.00 
9.00 

 
 
Total 
Relevant 
Employees 
2787.00 
716.00 

 
 
% 

0.18 
1.26 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

Caring Learning Growing 

 

 

 
Mean Gender Pay Gap: 
 
The calculation shows the difference between the mean average hourly rate of pay 
that male and female full-pay relevant employees receive. For all calculations full 
pay does not mean full time, it means that a person has received their full pay 
therefor people on maternity leave with half pay and those on sick leave with half 
pay are excluded. 
The calculation is undertaken by subtracting the mean average hourly rate of pay of 
all female full-pay employees from the mean average hourly rate of pay of all male 
full-pay employees and dividing the result by the mean average hourly rate of pay of 
all male full-pay employees and multiplying it by 100. 
 

  The Trust’s  mean gender pay gap is 11.06% 

 
Median Gender Pay Gap: 
 
The calculation shows the difference between the median hourly rate of pay that 
male and female full-pay relevant employees receive. 
The calculation is undertaken by subtracting the median hourly rate of pay of pay of 
all female full-pay employees from the median average hourly rate of pay of all male 
full-pay employees and dividing the result by the median average hourly rate of pay 
of all male full-pay employees and multiplying it by 100. 
 

  The Trust’s median gender pay gap  is 0.35% 

 
Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap: 
 
The calculation shows the difference between the mean average bonus pay that 
male and female full-pay relevant employees receive. 
The calculation is undertaken by subtracting the mean average bonus pay of all 
female full-pay employees (who were paid bonus pay during the 12 month period 
ending with the snap shot date) from the mean average hourly rate of pay of all 

 

Caring Learning Growing 

male full-pay employees (who were paid bonus pay during the 12 month period 
ending with the snap shot date) and dividing the result by the mean average bonus 
pay of all male full-pay employees and multiplying it by 100. 
 

  The Trust’s mean bonus gender pay gap is -49.32% 

 
The negative figure shows that females are paid a higher rate of bonus pay than 
males. 
 
The only people reported to have received bonus pay are Medical Staff who have 
received Clinical Excellence Awards. There are 14 people who received bonus pay 
(9 Males and 5 Females). Despite being less in number due to their seniority, 
longevity of service and experience the female’s awards were higher than the 
males. 
 
Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap: 
 
The calculation shows the difference between the median bonus pay that male and 
female full-pay relevant employees receive. 
 
The calculation is undertaken by subtracting the median bonus pay of pay of all 
female full-pay employees from the median average bonus pay of all male full-pay 
employees and dividing the result by the median average bonus pay of all male full-
pay employees and multiplying it by 100. 
 

  The Trust’s median bonus gender pay gap is -80.14% 

 
The proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment: 
 
These two calculations show the proportion of male employees who were paid 
bonus pay and the proportion of female employees who were paid bonus pay. 
 
Male-This calculation is undertaken by dividing the number of males who were paid 
bonus pay in the qualifying period by the total number of male employees and 
multiplying by 100.  
Female- This calculation is undertaken by dividing the number of females who were 
paid bonus pay in the qualifying period by the total number of female employees 
and multiplying by 100.  
 

  The proportion of males receiving a bonus payment is 1.26% 

 

  The proportion of females receiving a bonus payment is 0.18% 

 
The difference in the figures can be explained by the high proportion of females in 
the organisation, however the numbers of staff receiving bonuses is still very low. 
 
 
 

 

Caring Learning Growing 

 
The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band: 
 
This calculation shows the proportions of male and females in four quartile pay 
bands. 
The calculation is undertaken by dividing the workforce into four equal parts;  

 

firstly, all relevant employees are ranked from lowest hourly rate of pay to the 
highest hourly rate of pay 

  Secondly, the list is divided into four sections called quartiles with an equal 

number of employees in each section 

The proportion of males and females in each quartile pay band is: 
 

o  Quartile 1: 82.57% Female and 17.43% Male 
o  Quartile 2: 78.06% Female and 21.94% Male 
o  Quartile 3: 81.71% Female and 18.29% Male 
o  Quartile 4: 76.62% Female and 23.38% Male 

 
The highest proportion of male employees per quartile is in the highest bracket 
whilst the lowest proportion is in the lowest bracket which results in the gender pay 
gap of 11.06% 
 
Conclusion 
 
Whilst the Trust has a Gender Pay Gap at 11.06%, it is lower than the National 
average of 18%. 
 
The Trust as a whole has a proportion of 74.54% Females and 25.46% Male but 
this proportion is different across the staff groups. The lowest proportion of males is 
in the staff Group Allied Health Professionals with 88% Female and 12% Male 
closely followed by Nursing at 82% Female and 18% Male.  The highest proportion 
of Males within the Trust is in the Staff Group Medical and Dental with 54% Female 
and 46% male, followed by Estates and Ancillary 67% Female and 33% Male.  
 
There are proportionately more female staff than male staff working at lower bands 
and adversely proportionately more male staff working at higher bands however the 
numbers involved in the Trusts data are relatively small but make a significant 
difference to the percentages 
 
The number of staff being paid bonuses is very low with a total of 14 people 
receiving additional benefits and these are all Clinical Excellence Awards to Medical 
Staff. However the highest amounts are paid to female medics who have longevity 
of service and experience. 
 
The Trust has a high proportion of Female staff overall and this is generally in line 
with National NHS Figures (77%).  
 
 
 

 

Caring Learning Growing 

 
What we will do to reduce the gender gap 
 
We remain committed to a workplace that respects and harnesses equality and 
diversity.  We will work to improve the gender pay gap by undertaking the actions 
below: 
 

  Continue to provide fair and equitable access to training and career 

promotion. 

  Continue to identify and develop leaders and managers based on aspiration 

and skills, taking account of gender uptake. 

  Review the Recruitment and Selection training package to include 

interviewing by diverse panels to avoid unconscious bias. 

  Continue to make equality and diversity training mandatory for all staff. 
  Deliver unconscious bias training as part of our E&D training. 
  Review job titles to ensure that they are gender neutral and are not 

traditionally stereotypical. 

  Work closer with schools as appropriate to encourage school leavers to take 

up a career in the NHS, promoting all roles for all genders. 

  Better promote Flexible Working opportunities including shared parental 

 

leave entitlements. 
Include an annual review of gender split across all bands as part of the 
annual Public Sector Equality Duty process, including it as a main priority for 
2018/19 in our annual equality and diversity report to the Board.   

  Continue our commitment of encouraging an even gender split at Board 

level. 

 
 
 

 

Caring Learning Growing 

