 
At Shawbrook we are committed to creating a 
diverse and inclusive workplace and foster a culture 
where everyone can thrive.

Under new legislation, Shawbrook, as with all UK 
employers, is required to publish its gender pay gap which 
compares the average pay of men and women in the 
workforce. The primary cause of our gap at Shawbrook is 
the proportionately higher number of men than women in 
senior roles across the Bank. We’re working hard to reduce 
our gap and have put in place a number of key initiatives 
that will help us achieve this over time. We also recognise 
the important role we play in improving the gender 
balance across the financial services industry. That’s 
why we’ve signed up to the Treasury’s Women in Finance 
Charter which encourages industry action to support the 
progression of women into senior roles.

Gender pay & bonus gap
 
The numbers below show the mean (average) and 
median (mid point) difference in pay and bonus of all 
male colleagues compared to all female colleagues 
across our workforce. This differs from equal pay which is 
a more detailed measure of pay differences between men 
and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or 
work of equal value. At Shawbrook, we are committed to 
providing equal opportunities. Our pay and performance 
decisions are reviewed each year to ensure that they are 
objective and fair.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017.

 
I’m a firm believer that a diverse workforce is the best one 
and getting our gender balance right at all levels across 
our organisation is an important part of this. We, like many 
other organisations across our industry, have a journey 
ahead of us to improve our gender pay gap but we’re 
committed to doing so in the right way. That means it isn’t 
just about the numbers to us; it’s about how we embed 
a culture where all our people feel included, are able to 
bring their whole self to work and are able to make the 
most of the opportunities available at Shawbrook. I look 
forward to sharing our progress in the years to come.

I confirm the data provided below for April 2017 is accurate. 

 
Steve Pateman CEO

Proportion receiving a bonus
 
This shows the percentage of male and female colleagues 
who received a bonus during the reporting period.

Female

Male

17.8%

23.7%

Difference between 
men and women

Mean 

Median

82.2%

76.3%

Gender Pay Gap

40.6%

42.2% 

Gender Bonus Gap

50.5%

57.9%

Gender representation by Pay Quartiles

Received a bonus
Did not receive a bonus

The overall split of male and female employees across Shawbrook is relatively 
balanced (59% male, 41% female as at April 2017). However, as shown below, we 
have a disproportionate number of senior male managers, which is the primary 
reason for our gender pay gap. 

Female
Male

62.2%

52.4%

29.3%

18.2%

1

2

3

4

37.8%

47.6%

70.7%

81.8%

Lower

Lower Mid

Upper Mid

Upper

2018

How we will make a difference

•  Continue our commitments to Women in  

Finance Charter 
Through our pledges, we’ve set ourselves 
challenging aspirational targets, but we’re making 
good progress against them. 27% of our senior 
leader roles are now occupied by women and we’ve 
already embedded an assessment of our progress 
on gender diversity into our performance and bonus 
measures. 

• 

• 

•  Recruiting for our future 

With the support of our trusted partners, we’ll 
continue our investment in inclusive recruitment 
practices to help us attract a diverse pool of talent 
to Shawbrook.

Embed the Shawbrook Inclusion Community 
We’ll continue to encourage an inclusive culture 
where our employees can openly share their career 
success stories and wider experiences with each 
other through a range of forums.   

Launch My Shawbrook Pathway 
This year, we’ll be focusing on helping our 
employees better understand how they can  
make the most of their career at Shawbrook and 
will be investing in structured leadership and 
mentoring programmes to help us identify our  
stars of the future.

