GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

2017

INTRODUCTION | A message from our Founder

Since I started The White Company, issues of equality and diversity have always
been key to the success of our brand and close to my heart.

I believe strongly in equality for all and specifically equal pay for equal jobs.
I am
confident that we pay people fairly for the jobs they do and the experience they
bring to our business, regardless of gender.

Publishing our gender pay gap is an important moment for us and understanding
the context has been equally as important. This report aims to share our
approach towards equal pay, diversity and equality. We believe this is critical to
share with our internal teams, our prospective employees and wider community.
Our aim is to be an active participant in supporting improvements in all areas of
equality and diversity, this report sets out some of our commitments towards
achieving this vision.

Over 80% of the team at The White Company are women, and this has been the
case since I started the business. We are committed to ensuring we give
opportunities to the brilliant women we have in the business, whilst remaining an
employer of choice for women in our industry.

However, we have work to do, and it starts at the very top.
I am proud to say
that since the period this report relates to, I have appointed a female CEO, Mary
Homer to lead my Operating Board. Mary shares my passion for employing and
progressing strong female talent and I am confident her leadership will see us take
big steps forward.

Chrissie Rucker, MBE (Founder)

Gender Pay Gap Report

2

INTRODUCTION | A message from our CEO

Having calculated our gender pay gap using the reporting regulations, it has highlighted
that we have a gap in gender pay.

Having reviewed the calculations and the data behind them, we pay men and women
equally for any directly comparable role. We are an equal pay for equal work employer
and this remains of critical importance to us. Since the date the statistics in this report
refer to, my team has been working hard to firstly understand why the gap exists and
then what we can do to begin closing it. The biggest driver being the predominance of
men in senior positions.

The White Company has always been a female orientated business; our customers are
predominantly female and we have a great record of employing talented women. It has
been important for us to commit to actions in order to reduce and close our gap now
and in the future, some of these are shared towards the end of this report.

We have already started on these commitments and I’m delighted to confirm we have
appointed two talented and experienced women to our Operating Board, ensuring our
customer and employee bases are represented at the most senior levels of our business.

I am proud to lead the talented team at The White Company and share its ethos that
diversity is essential. People are at the heart of our brand and we remain focused on
developing a working environment that celebrates difference across all areas.

I can confirm that our gender pay gap statement is accurate and correct as at 5 April
2017.

Mary Homer (CEO)

Gender Pay Gap Report

3

GENDER PAY GAP EXPLAINED | What is the gender pay gap?

Simply put, a gender pay gap is the difference between the average pay of a
male employee and that of a female, averaged across the whole organisation.

A gender pay gap does not, on its own, indicate that an organisation is paying
employees unfairly, as it reflects a broad average across the whole business
and doesn’t allow for direct comparisons between like for like roles. So the
gender pay gap calculation cannot be used to establish whether an organisation
pays men and women equally for the same type of work.

We believe this is a very important distinction. At the White Company, we
determine salary dependant on the role, not the person, as we believe gender
is irrelevant in determining pay. We are very confident that we are an equal
pay for equal work employer and that employees doing the same role,
regardless of gender, are paid equitably.

A gender pay gap can be driven by a number of factors, for example having
more men in senior positions within your organisation who tend to be paid
more as a result of their position.

At The White Company, we recognise that gender is a complex subject and
increasingly people identify outside of the forms of male and female. We
celebrate difference and support individual
identification, however for the
purpose of this report we are required to follow reporting regulations in how
we calculate our figures; we have therefore compared the pay of male and
female employees.

Gender Pay Gap Report

4

GENDER PAY GAP EXPLAINED | How is it calculated?

The gender pay gap reporting regulations ensure that all organisations calculate their gender pay gap in a consistent way. They also make it
clear on how to present our data. We believe that to understand our figures, it’s important to understand how they are calculated. It is worth
noting that all calculations are based on a snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

There are several calculations that together show the difference between male and female pay, a full explanation for each calculation is as
follows:

Median Pay Gap

Mean Pay Gap

Median Bonus Gap

Mean Bonus Gap

The ‘median average’ is the middle of a range of numbers that are ordered from smallest to largest. To calculate the
median pay gap we order all of our female employees hourly pay rates and select the middle value and do the same
with our male employees. We then calculate the difference between these values as a percentage.

The ‘mean average’ adds all of the values within a range and divides by the total number of values. It’s what most
people would call simply the average. To calculate our mean pay gap, we took all female hourly pay rates added
together and divided by the total number of female employees. We did the same for our male employees and
calculated the difference as a percentage.

As with calculating the median pay gap, we did the same but this time just using bonus payments that employees
received in the 12 months running up to the snapshot date rather than ordinary pay.

As with calculating the mean pay gap, we did the same but this time just using bonus payments that employees
received in the 12 months running up to the snapshot date rather than ordinary pay.

Bonus Payment Proportions We have also shown the percentage of all women and men across our business who actually received a bonus

payment in the 12 months running up to the reporting date.

Pay Quartiles

Pay quartiles are calculated by arranging all of our employees pay in order, smallest to largest and then splitting the
arrangement into four equal groups, or quarters. The first quarter contains the group that is lowest paid in our
business and the fourth quarter, the highest. We show the percentage of women and men in each of these four
groups.

Gender Pay Gap Report

5

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT | Our Pay Figures

The below breakdown shows the figures calculated as per the reporting regulations, we have also added on the next two pages some further
details which provide more context around our figures.

GENDER PAY GAP | The median and mean average differences in ordinary pay for all female and male employees.  

PAY – ALL EMPLOYEES

PAY – NON-MANAGEMENT

MEDIAN

6.4%

6.4%

MEAN

31.8%

12.2%

GENDER SPLITS BY PAY GROUP QUARTILES | The proportion of male and female employees in each quartile pay group 

Upper
Quartile

Upper

Middle Quartile

Lower

Middle Quartile
Lower
Quartile

30.4%

21.3%

15.5%

12.3%

69.6%

78.7%

84.5%

87.7%

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Male

Female

Gender Pay Gap Report

6

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT | Understanding our pay gap

UNDERSTANDING WHAT DRIVES OUR GAP

COMPARISONS ACROSS OUR BUSINESS

The biggest driver of our gender pay gap is the fact that we have
more male employees in our highest paid quartile than in our
lowest, almost three times as many. When we examine the gender
balance across our organisation, we employ many more women
than men, however per capita we have more men in senior roles
than occupy junior ones (please see charts below). When we take
only our non-management roles, our pay gap figures look very
different, with our mean gap reducing to 12.2% and our median
remaining the same at 6.4%.

GENDER BALANCE BY LEVEL | Shows the split of gender
at each level of our organisation – we have more male employees per
capita in more senior roles than in junior ones

19%

18%

26%

81%

82%

74%

Whole Company

Non-Management

Management

Leadership

44%

56%

Male

Female

To understand where in our business the gap was more
prevalent, we reviewed our data by business area. Our
pay gaps in each area are as follows:

Therefore we can see that another factor driving our
figures are the gender balance in roles that tend to
attract a higher salaries. Most notably, external labour
market factors drive a higher proportion of men within
some of our head office teams.

On reviewing our pay gap across the business,
it
becomes evident that the averages are driven by the
relatively high number of men in senior positions, within
a smaller number of men across the business.
In
comparison, we had fewer women in the most senior
positions, amongst a large majority of women in the
business.

Gender Pay Gap Report

7

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT | Understanding our bonus gap

BONUS | The median and mean average differences 
between bonus pay for female and male employees 

OUR BONUS PAYMENTS

MEDIAN

MEAN

BONUS PAY

16.9%

97.4%

BONUS PROPORTIONS | The percentage of male and 
female employees that actually received a bonus 

MALE

FEMALE

23.9%

39.0%

We operate several bonus schemes at The White Company.
The majority of our employees are covered by our Retail and
Company bonus schemes which celebrate store and overall
company performance. When you take these schemes
separately, we have a mean difference of 14.5% and a median
difference of negative 1.7%. A negative difference means that
typically male employees may have received less bonus pay
than female employees.

Our reported gap is heavily influenced by our most senior
leadership team. At the point of reporting, our senior team
was made up mainly of male employees and so this small
team had a large impact on our reported bonus gap. As
mentioned earlier in the report, we are very proud to have
appointed a female CEO and also believe strongly in the
progression of
female leaders within our business, so are
certain that this gap will start to close when we next publish
figures.

Gender Pay Gap Report

8

GENDER PAY GAP | Our commitments

Now that we have understood our gender pay gap, we are committing to a
number of actions to reduce and close it, both now and in the future.

In addition to continuing our approach to equal pay for equal work (as set
out in this report), we have set six commitments for the next 12 months
and beyond which we believe will help us reduce our gender pay gap and
focus us all.

1. Encourage more internal progression through making all of our internal
vacancies visible, particularly within our stores and placing a greater
emphasis on how these are advertised and communicated

2. Use opportunities to promote and celebrate female leadership talent

across the business to encourage senior female hires/promotions

3. Develop our relationships with key women's networks such as

Everywoman, Women in Tech and Retail Week’s Be Inspired series

4. Launch a new management development programme which includes
training to line managers around equality and diversity and unconscious
bias

5. Develop a high potential training programme,

improving access to

training and coaching

6. Review our policies of flexible working and shared parental leave and

ensure these are promoted and understood by all employees

We will report against these commitments when we next publish our
gender pay figures in the coming months.

Gender Pay Gap Report

9

