HAVERING COLLEGE

GENDER
PAY GAP
REPORT

MARCH 2018

For more information call: 01708 455 011
www.havering-college.ac.uk

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

There are over 3.2 million people employed in the Education sector 
and almost 72%of those are women. The workforce at Havering 
College is reflective of this national trend with almost 67% of our 
workforce being female.

Havering College, like many other FE and HE colleges, employs people 
from varied occupational backgrounds which makes our pay analysis 
more complex than an organisation operating in just one sector.  
Thus, in addition to the mandatory analysis we have analysed smaller 
staff groups to investigate the gender pay gap in specific areas of the 
business. The areas and the female to male demographic is as below: 

Management
   55% female and  45% male

Lecturers
   52% female and  48% male

We pride ourselves on providing a flexible and inclusive working 
environment that allows our staff a healthy and sustainable work-
life balance. We are committed to evaluating salaries for roles 
within the organisation that are consistent, transparent and free 
of bias and these values underpin our recruitment and selection 
processes. Flexible working is available for all staff, irrespective of 
gender or job role, to apply for. 

33.5% of our workforce work on a part-time basis and the part-time 
female to male ratio is 16:3 – that is for every 16 female part-time 
workers there are 3 male employees working on a fractional basis - 
compared to a ratio of 11:9 when analysing full time roles.  
Our gender pay analysis indicates that many of our part time roles 
sit within the lower middle and lower quartiles, with 84% of these 
roles occupied by female employees.

The median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to 
the November 2016 Office for National Statistics - Annual Survey of 
Hours and Earnings) is 19.2% and for the FE sector 25%.

At 22.9%, Havering College’s median gender pay gap is, therefore, 
lower than that of the sector average and we are committed to 
reaching parity with the national average in two years and further 
reducing the gap before 2022. Strategies to improve the gap 
include promoting flexible working policies, considering job share 
positions at a management level and using positive action 
schemes to equalise the gender balance in the lower middle and 
lower quartiles. 

JUST OVER

33%

OF OUR WORKFORCE 
ARE PART-TIME

Administrative & Clerical
   88% female and  12% male

Technical
   28% female and  72% male

The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay. The latter ensures that 
men and women receive equal pay for equal work whereas the gender 
pay gap analyses the differences in average hourly rates, across all levels 
of an organisation, to identify disparities in average earnings between men 
and women. The gender pay gap is calculated as percentage difference 
between the two rates; a positive percentage indicates that men receive a 
higher hourly rate than women whilst a negative percentage indicates that 
women receive a higher hourly rate compared to their male colleagues.

2

Gender Pay Gap Report

Gender Pay Gap Report

3

GENDER PAY GAP ANALYSIS

Mean Pay Gap

This is the difference between the average gross hourly pay of all female 
employees and the average gross hourly pay of all male employees. 
This figure appears above the national average however is skewed by 
a disproportionate number of female employees working in front-line 
support roles which make up the lower quartile. 

If we analyse smaller staff groups we can see the pay gap reduces 
considerably in some areas and in others the earnings of female 
employees exceed those of male employees.

Management Mean Pay Gap 

Lecturer Mean Pay Gap

Administrative & Clerical Mean Pay Gap

14.6%

-4.9%

3.3%

-3.8%

Technical Mean Pay Gap

MEDIAN PAY GAP

This is the difference between the mid-point gross hourly pay of all 
female employees and the mid-point gross hourly pay of all male 
employees. This figure appears above the national average however is 
skewed by a disproportionate number of female employees working in 
front-line support roles which make up the lower quartile.

If we analyse smaller staff groups we can see the median pay gap 
reduces considerably in some areas and in others the earnings of female 
employees exceed those of male employees (continued overleaf).

Management Median Pay Gap 

Lecturer Median Pay Gap

18.9%

22.9%

0%

5.4%

4

Gender Pay Gap Report

Gender Pay Gap Report

5

(MEDIAN PAY GAP CONTINUED)

Administrative & Clerical Median Pay Gap 

PAY QUARTILES

The pay quartiles illustrate the percentage of men and women  
in each quarter of the College’s payroll.

Technical Median Pay Gap

BONUS  
PAYMENTS 

The College doesn’t operate 
a bonus scheme therefore 
the bonus pay gap is 0%.

-20.9%

5.3%

Top quartile

Upper middle quartile

56%

44%

59%

41%

Lower middle quartile

Lower quartile

73%

79%

27%

21%

6

Gender Pay Gap Report

Gender Pay Gap Report

7

Havering College of Further & Higher Education
Ardleigh Green Road, Hornchurch RM11 2LL
e: hr@havering-college.ac.uk
t: 01708 455 011
www.havering-college.ac.uk

