 

|  Gender Pay Gap 

The Gender Pay Gap Regulations came into force in April 2017. The regulations mean that all employers 
with 250 or more employees are required to report their gender pay gap on an annual basis. The gender 
pay gap is defined as the difference between average earnings of men and women, expressed relative to 
men’s earnings. For example,’ women earn x% less than men per hour’. 

Pluss is committed to ensuring it has a highly valued, skilled, diverse and involved workforce. Central  
to this is its commitment to diversity and inclusion of which Gender Equality plays a significant part. 

Pluss’ workforce is fairly even with 57.8% being male and 42.2% being female. The majority (95%) of 
the total workforces’ salary is determined by a salary band and scale point or the national 
minimum/living wage. Therefore, the majority of employees, are paid the same hourly rate for the role 
regardless of the gender. The remaining 5% receive a salary that is determined by an external job 
evaluation and grading process, which is based on the role as opposed to the gender of the incumbent. 

Our gender pay gap: 

  The mean gender pay gap for Pluss is 2.2%  

  The median gender pay gap for Pluss is -14.4% 

  The mean gender bonus gap for Pluss is 100% 

  The median gender bonus pay gap for Pluss is 100% 

  The proportion of male employees in Pluss receiving a bonus is 1.04%  

and the proportion of female employees receiving a bonus is 0%. 

| Pay quartiles by gender  

Quartile 

Top Quartile 

Males 

Females 

Description 

63.2% 

36.8% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places  
them above the upper quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

71.2% 

28.8% 

Lower Middle Quartile 

50.4% 

49.6% 

Lower Quartile 

46.4% 

53.6% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places  
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places  
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places  
them at or below the lower quartile 

The figures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 and as at 5 April 2017. 

Pluss’ 2.2% gap is significantly lower than the October 2017 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual 
Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) which estimated a national average of 17.4% for  
all employees. 

 

 
 

 

  Page 1 of 2 

Pluss’ -14.4% median gender pay gap highlights that despite marginally more men being employed, 
female’s median average hourly rate is higher per hour than males. Due to the scale point and banding 
structure this figure is likely to be as a result of more females sitting higher up the pay band due to their 
increased length of service with the business. 

Pluss’ mean and median gender bonus gap of 100% should be seen in the context of the small number 
of employees, 1.04%, all of which are executive directors that attract a performance bonus. This is 
reflective of behaviour across the UK economy where it is reported that on the whole, men are more 
likely than women to be in senior roles (especially very senior roles at the top of the organisations), 
while women are more likely than men to be in front-line roles at lower end of the organisation. 

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make up of Pluss’ workforce, where 
the majority of front-line staff are women, while the majority of line manager and senior manager roles 
are held by men. 

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles by gender. This shows Pluss’ workforce 
divided into four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with the top quartile covering the 
highest-paid 25% and the lower quartile covering the lowest 25%.   

The table which shows the distribution of males and females across four equally sized quartiles. For 
there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each band. 
However, within Pluss 53.6% of employees within the lower quartile are women and 46.4% men. The 
percentage of male employees increases throughout the remaining bands, until a slight decrease from 
71.2% in the upper middle quarter to 63.2% in the top quartile.   

| Moving Forward  

Pluss is committed to gender gap pay equality and although we have a 2.2% difference in mean pay 
and a -14.4% in median pay, which is below the national average, when we break this down by quartile 
we see slightly different stories in our different pay quartiles and so as well as actions that support the 
whole of our workforce, we will be specifically working to address the discrepancy we find in our Upper 
Middle and Top Quartile of comparatively higher earners. 

The business is currently in the process of the reviewing the way in which it rewards and recognises its 
employees which may include the implementation of a bonus scheme in the future.   

| Our Statement 

I am pleased to note that Pluss’s median and mean pay gaps are well below the national average. We 
are committed to developing a diverse and inclusive workforce which reflects the communities in which 
we operate and the customers which we serve. We offer our employees a wide range of benefits to 
attract and appoint people – both internal and external candidates – to roles based on merit, across all 
areas and levels within the business. 

I confirm that Pluss is committed to gender pay equality and that our gender pay gap figures have been 
calculated in line with mandatory requirements. 

Steve Hawkins  
CEO, Pluss 

  
3rd April 2018 

 
 

 

  Page 2 of 2 

