 

 

2017 Gender pay gap report for employees of the Chapter of York  

 

Introduction  

Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees (including 
those who are self-employed) to publish statutory calculations every year showing how 
large the pay gap is between their male and female employees. The data is collected on the 
same date each year, 5 April.   

Gender pay reporting is different to equal pay 

Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out the 
same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. It is unlawful to pay people unequally 
because they are a man or a woman. At York Minster, employees are remunerated 
according to set pay scales which are not related to gender. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women 
in a workforce. If a workforce has a particularly high gender pay gap, this can sometimes 
indicate there may be a number of issues to deal with, and the individual calculations may 
help to identify what those issues are. It might also simply reflect the nature of the industry 
or the type of workforce common to that workplace. 

The Figures 

Total number of staff employed by The Chapter of York at the data collection date of 5 April 
2017 was 258.  
 

Men 

 
Workforce numbers  131 (50.78%) 
Mean average 
hourly rate 
Median average 
hourly rate 
Bonuses paid 

£13.13 

£12.47 

0 

Women 
127 (49.22%) 
£12.97 

Gender Pay Gap 
 
1.25% 

£11.38 

8.73% 

0 

 

Page 1 of 2 

 

 

 

Proportion of males and females in each quartile. 

 
Lower 
Lower Middle 
Upper Middle 
Upper 

Male 
41% 
52% 
64% 
46% 

Female 
59% 
48% 
36% 
54% 

 (Note: quartiles have been calculated by sorting the workforce by hourly rate and then dividing it into four 
equal sized groups to show the proportion of men and women in each band) 

The data interpreted 

The data was collected at the beginning of April 2017. Our rates of pay in the upper middle 
range recognise that we have large number of male singers in permanent and casual 
contracts to meet the needs for lower voices in the choir alongside the girls and boy 
choristers. These posts for professional singers are paid at a higher hourly rate than our 
mean hourly rate.  In addition this group includes a large number of construction staff who 
include a minority of women in roles that have been regarded traditionally as male careers. 

In addition, our temporary visitor experience workforce is increased over each Easter period 
to meet the visitor and tourist needs. This workforce is largely female and paid at the lower 
end of the range below the mean hourly rate, we are committed to paying all staff at least 
the national accredited living wage, which was £8.45 in 2017.  

Employment policies and procedures 

The Chapter of York has a mean gender pay gap of 1.25%. It is 16.75%points lower than the 
national average of 18% as stated on the UK Government website. We are proud of our 
commitment to equity of pay as well as to the Accredited Living wage and this figure for 
1.25% reinforced our commitment to all forms of equality including gender equality.   
Nevertheless, it is our aim to maintain this level of gender pay equality and commit to 
conducting regular reviews of policies and procedures to further promote equality and 
inclusivity for all. 

We recognise that flexible working opportunities are a key way to attract both working 
parents and carers and we try to accommodate our staff needs on this basis wherever 
possible. 

The Chapter of York is committed to using the gender pay gap data to provide us with a 
benchmark for seeking to reward our staff in an appropriate and consistent way. 

 

Page 2 of 2 

