Gender Pay Gap Reporting 

 
 

Introduction 
 
Recent Government Regulations stipulate that companies in England, Scotland and 
Waleswith  250  or  more  employees  on  the  snapshot  date  of  5th  April  2017are 
required to carry out mandatory Gender Pay Gap Reporting. John Nike Leisure Sport 
Ltd employed 341 members of staff on the snapshot date and therefore the relevant 
calculations have been made and are supported by this narrative. As outlined in the 
legislation  the  Gender  Pay  Gap  Reporting  data  and  narrative  are  published  on  the 
government website and also our own website. 
 
John Nike Leisure SportLtd consists of 5 sites, 4 of which are ski slopes and the fifth 
has both a ski slope and an ice rink. The company is committed to recruiting the right 
member  of  staff  for  each  position  in  the  company  regardless  of  age,  gender, 
ethnicity,  disability,  religion  or  sexual  orientation.John  Nike  Leisure  Sportviews 
Gender  Pay  Gap  Reporting  as  a  positive  exercise  which  can  only  assist  all 
companies in achieving equality across genders in the workplace.  
 
 
Gender Pay Gap 
 
On the 5th April 2017, of the 341 members of staff employed by John Nike Leisure 
Sport Ltd 208 were men and 133 women. We are required to provide the following 
statistics: 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap (Difference between mean average hours earnings of males 
and females.) 
 
Median  Gender  Pay  Gap  (Difference  between  median  average  hourly  earnings  of 
males and females.) 
 
Mean Gender Bonus Pay Gap (Difference between mean average bonus earnings 
of males and females.) 
 
Median  Gender  Bonus  Pay  Gap  (Difference  between  median  average  bonus 
earnings of males and females.) 
 
The Proportion of Males and Females Receiving a Bonus 
 
The Proportion of Males and Females in Each Quartile 
 
As  at  the  5th  April  2017  payroll,  our  mean  gender  pay  gap  stood  at  3.2%,  with  our 
median  gender  pay  gap  at  2.5%,  both  of  which  favour  males.  These  are  both  well 
below the national mean (17.4%) and median  (18.4%) as reported by the Office of 
National Statistics, 2017. 
 
We are confident that our staff are not paid differently due to gender and our results 
support  this.  Whilst  we  employ  more  men  than  women  the  sample  size  of  both 

genders  are  large  enough  to  ensure  that  the  results  of  our  calculations  are 
significant. We  are  also  confident  that  our  Managers  recruit  for  positions  based  on 
their ability to perform the role and not on gender or any other factors. The fact that 
we  employ  more  men  than  women  perhaps  reflects  the  fact  that  more  men  than 
women are attracted to working in sport. Moving forward a review of the numbers of 
males and females applying for our vacancies would be a useful exercise. 
 
Our  Mean  bonus  gap  stands  at  100%  and  our  median  bonus  gap  also  at  100%, 
favouring males. This could seem worrying until the figures are explained. Of the 341 
employees only 5 were on the bonus scheme, these were the managers of each of 
the 5 sites. Three of the managers are men and two are women, but only one of the 
managers hit their targets required in order to achieve their bonus and this manager 
happened to be male. 
 
In  terms  of  our  calculations  for  the  overall  number  of  males  and  females  in  the 
company receiving a bonus our results are also affected by the nature of the bonus 
scheme, for the males it was 0.5% and for women 0.0%. I refer again to the fact that 
only 5 members of staff in the company (3 male and 2 female) were eligible for the 
scheme.  As  of  1/52017  the  bonus  scheme  was  removed  whilst  we  evaluate  other 
means of incentivising management. 
 
Our gender distribution by quartiles, as defined by the regulations, show that females 
are  underrepresented  in  the  middle  two  quartiles,  whilst  in  the  upper  and  lower 
bands the distribution of males and females are very similar. 
 
Lower Quartile: 
 
Lower Middle Quartile:  Male 64% 
 
Upper Middle Quartile:  Male 75% 
 
Upper Quartile: 
 
These  figures  show  that  males  and females are  very  similarly  proportioned  in  both 
the more junior and more senior roles which is very encouraging. The distribution in 
the middle two quartiles reflect the general male to female split of 61% / 39% in the 
company. 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
The results demonstrate that equal opportunities are given to men and women when 
recruiting and promoting our employees.  
 
This  is  our  first  year  reporting  our  gender  pay  gap  and  we  know  that  we  there  is 
always room for improvement. It is clear that calculating these figures is a valuable 
exercise  and  we  are  committed  to  regularly  reviewing  our  HR  policies  and 
procedures to support our female members of staff.  It is firmly within  our culture to 
recruit and develop all staff regardless of ethnicity, gender, age, disability, religion or 
sexual orientation. 

Female 44% 

Female 25% 

Male 51% 

Female 49% 

 

 

Male 56% 

Female 36% 

