GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

Pinewood values its people and the 
contribution they make. We aim to 
create a working environment where 
everyone is valued equally, and all 
employees feel respected.

In 2017, 250 amazing women who were working at Pinewood Studios, gathered for celebrity photographer Richard Young 
to #BeBoldForChange to mark International Women’s Day (8 March).

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    02

1. Introduction 

At  the  Pinewood  Studios  Group  (“Pinewood”,  the 
“Company”  and  together  with 
its  subsidiaries, 
the  “Group”),  we  believe  that  our  people  are  a  key 
component  of  our  success  and  are  committed  to 
creating an environment in which all colleagues are 
treated fairly and equally. We believe that increased 
diversity,  inclusion  and  gender  balance  is  key  to  a 
successful working environment.

In  2017,  new  regulations  were  introduced  by  the  UK 
Government  requiring  all  UK  companies  with  over 
250  employees  to  report  on  their  gender  pay  gap  on 
an  annual  basis.  The  Pinewood  Studios  Group  is  fully 
supportive of gender pay gap reporting. 

At  Pinewood,  our  workforce  is  split  37%  female  and 
63% male. This is an increase from 2012 when females 
accounted for 29% of the workforce. There is a lower 
proportion of females at the senior management level, 
where pay is highest, resulting in a gender pay gap in our 
organisation. 

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    03

1.1 Gender pay gap vs. equal pay
•  Equal pay means that men and women in the same 
employment performing equal work have the right to 
receive equal pay, which is a legal requirement as set 
out in the Equality Act 2010.

•  The gender  pay  gap  is  a  measure  of  the  difference 
between  the  average  earnings  of  men  and  women 
irrespective of role. It is expressed as a percentage of 
men’s earnings.

Foley artist working in Theatre 2 at Shepperton Studios.

•  The  Government  requires  employers  to  report  both 
the  median  and  mean  gender  pay  gaps  and  bonus 
gaps  in  their  workforce,  as  well  as  information  on 
the proportion of men and women awarded a bonus, 
and the proportion of men and women when divided 
into  four  groups  (quartiles)  from  lowest  to  highest 
pay. Median and mean calculations were used when 
comparing bonuses for men and women from 1 April 
2016 to 31 March 2017, in line with the Government’s 
reporting requirements.

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    04

2. The gender pay gap at 
Pinewood

2.1. Median and Mean
Overall  gender  pay  gap  as  at  31  March  2017  at  the 
Pinewood  Studios  Group  is  9.2%  on  a  median  basis 
and  33.6%  on  a  mean  basis.  According  to  the  Office 
for National Statistics (ONS), the median pay gap for all 
employees (full-time and part-time) in the UK stands at 
18.4%.

There are 2 key drivers behind the pay gap at Pinewood:

•  There  is  a  lower  representation  of  women  at  senior 
levels  within  the  Company  with  only  1  female  (8%) 
out of 13 senior roles. This was then further impacted 
by the Company’s long term incentive plan (LTIP) that 
was in place during the reporting period which was only 
applied to the senior management team.

•  Secondly  67%  of  employees  work  in  manual  skilled 
roles  such  as  maintenance,  engineering,  grounds 
people, technology and sound mixing. Whilst there is no 
occupational reason for male dominance in these roles, 
Pinewood Group has found that only 9% of applicants 
for these types of roles are female.

If we remove the LTIP from the data set it brings the mean 
gender pay gap down to 20.6% but the median remains 
at 9.2%.

On 6th July 2017, the Rt. Hon. Karen Bradley, MP, Secretary 
of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport joined Pinewood 
Group’s Chairman Paul Golding and Corporate Affairs Director 
Andrew M. Smith to present twenty-one Pinewood employees 
with Pinewood Studio Management Diplomas.

The gender pay gap at 
Pinewood on a median 
basis is 9.2% compared to 
the UK median of 18.4%

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    05

2.2 Quartiles
Pinewood’s workforce of 279 employees is 37% female 
and 63% male. If we split our workforce  across 4 groups, 
we can see the percentage of female members of staff 
is higher in the lower two quartiles whereas males are 
higher in the upper two quartiles. 

Lower Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

62%
Male

38%
Female

59%
Male

41%
Female

Upper Middle Quartile

Upper Quartile

Pinewood’s 
workforce is made 
up of 37% female 
and 63% male.

70%
Male

30%
Female

70%
Male

30%
Female

Figure 1. Males and females in each quartile pay band

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    06

3. Bonus gender pay gap 
at Pinewood 

All  employees  were  eligible  for  a  bonus  based  on 
departmental  budgets  and  individual  performance. 
In the 12 month period to 31 March 2017, 75% of 
female staff received a bonus compared to 70% of 
male staff.  

The  mean  bonus  gender  pay  gap  is 85.7%,  while  the 
median is 15.5%.

The key driver of the gap is due to lower representation 
of women at senior levels within the Company and the 
Company’s long term incentive plan (LTIP) which only 
applied to the senior management team of which 92% 
were male.

If we remove the LTIP figures from the data set it brings 
the mean bonus gender pay gap down to 61.3% but the 
median remains at  15.5%.

75% of female staff 
received a bonus 
compared to 70% of 
male staff.

Proportion of male/female receiving a bonus

Male
70%

Female
75%

Figure 2. Proportion of male and female employees receiving a bonus

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    07

Sion-Manning Catholic Girls’ School visit to Shepperton Studios on 18 October 2017.

4. Our Actions

4.1. How we are already addressing  
the Gap
We recognise the need to improve our gender balance 
and we have been working hard to address this. 

Pinewood opened its gates to 870 guests from 33 local schools, 
colleges and universities for a careers event on 22 January 2017.

We  are  currently  encouraging  and  supporting  the 
following initiatives: 

•  The  BAFTA  Diversity  Monitoring  Survey  has  been 
included  in  the  careers  section  of  our  website,  the 
results of which are expected to help us develop our 
equal opportunities policies and monitor each stage of 
our recruitment processes

•   Providing a range of flexible working opportunities 

•  Supporting  and  promoting  International  Women’s 

Day ‘Press for Progress’

•  Actively encouraging female participation in careers 

fairs 

•  Organising  events  at  Pinewood  and  Shepperton 
Studios for girls’ schools in the local community, where 
leading figures in the media industry participate and 
promote career opportunities.

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    08

Pinewood celebrates International Women’s Day 2018 and staff #PressForProgress

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    09

4.2. How we will continue to address the 
gap in the future
We are currently developing a comprehensive Diversity 
and  Inclusion  strategy  that  will  seek  to  strengthen 
recruitment  practices  and  focus  on  retaining  female 
employees. 

We are also looking to increase the number of females 
in our senior leadership team. The recruitment process 
will be designed to draw from diverse candidate lists and 
interview panels will be gender balanced where possible. 
Additionally, we will continue to monitor and implement 
development, mentoring and sponsorship programmes 
to ensure they promote diversity and inclusion. 

Our enhanced family leave policies, which are designed 
to balance the demands of parenting as well as support  
employees  when  they  return  to  work  after  parental 
leave, will continue to be monitored and promoted. 

We  confirm  the 
accurate as of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

information  and  data  reported 

is 

Paul W M Golding
Chairman
Pinewood Group

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    10

Definitions

Pay gap
The difference (median and mean) in the hourly rate of 
pay between all men and all women in an organisation, 
expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings – at the 
snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

Median pay gap
The difference between the midpoints in the ranges of 
men’s and women’s pay.

Mean pay gap
The difference in the average hourly rate of men’s and 
women’s pay.

Bonus gap
The percentage difference (median and mean) in total 
bonus payments received by men and women in the 12 
months preceding the snapshot date.

Proportion receiving bonus
The  percentage  of  men  and  women  who  received  a 
bonus in the 12 months preceding the snapshot date.

Pay quartiles
Shows  the  proportion  of  men  and  women  in  different 
pay  bands,  with  the  workforce  divided  into  four  equal 
parts (quartiles).

Pinewood Gender Pay Gap Report 2017    11

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

© Pinewood Group Limited 2018

