GENDER PAY REPORT 

 

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the gross hourly earnings 
of  all  male  and  female  employees  –  part-time,  full-time  and  at  all  levels.  This  is 
different  from  equal  pay,  which  looks  at  the  earnings  of  men  and  women 
performing the same (or similar) work within an organisation. 
 
We are confident that our approach to pay supports equal pay for equal work. For 
all employees undertaking similar roles (regardless of gender) our approach to pay is 
to  ensure  there  is  fairness;  we  also  take  into  account  factors  such  as  market 
reference  points,  experience/skills,  location  and  performance  in  setting  individual 
pay.  
 
We  regularly  review  our  pay  levels  and  practices  as  part  of  an  annual  pay  review 
and benchmarking exercise and in response to the requirement of the gender pay 
gap  legislation  we  have  reviewed  all  roles,  at  all  levels,  across  our  business  to 
understand the full picture of our results. 
 
Our  analysis  (see  table  below)  indicates  a  mean  gender  pay  gap  is  15%,  however 
our median pay gap is just 2%.   

Mean Pay Gap 

Median Pay Gap 

 

Gender Pay Gap 

15% 

2% 

The distribution of male and female employees by hourly pay quartile is set out in the 
table below. There is a significantly higher proportion of male to female employees 
in the upper quartile; a slightly higher female to male ratio in the upper middle and 
lower middle quartiles and a slightly (6%) higher proportion of males to females in the 
lower quartile. 

Total Distribution of male and female employees  

by hourly pay quartile 

 

Upper Quartile 

Upper Middle 

Lower Middle 

Lower Quartile 

 

Morses Club PLC 

Male 

Female 

64% 

46% 

43% 

53% 

36% 

54% 

57% 

47% 

Registered Address: Kingston House, Centre 27 Business Park, Woodhead Road, Birstall, Batley, WF17 9TD 
www.morsesclub.com 
 
Authorised and regulated by The Financial Conduct Authority. 
Registered in England No. 06793980 

 

 
Our mean bonus / commission gap bonus / commission gap is 33% and the median 
bonus/commission gap is 28%. This relates to the higher incidence of male to female 
employees  at  senior  levels  and  is  indicative  of  the  industry  sector  in  which  we 
operate. 

Gender Bonus / Commission Gap 

Mean Gap 

Median Gap 

33% 

28% 

 

 

During  the  reporting  period  our  bonus  and  commission  arrangements  were  target 
related and, of the employees eligible for bonus / commission, 79% of eligible males 
and  69%  of  eligible  females  achieved  the  required  targets  and  were  in  receipt  of 
bonus or commission (see Figure 1). 

 

 

Figure 1  Proportion of Employees earning bonus / commission 

I can confirm that the above information is accurate. 

 

      

 

 

Tracey Mulligan 
HR & Communications Director 

Morses Club PLC 

Registered Address: Kingston House, Centre 27 Business Park, Woodhead Road, Birstall, Batley, WF17 9TD 
www.morsesclub.com 
 
Authorised and regulated by The Financial Conduct Authority. 
Registered in England No. 06793980 

 

