Sue Freestone 
Principal 
 
 
28th March 2018 
 
 

King’s Ely: Gender Pay Gap Report – April 2017 

King’s Ely is required to publish a Gender Pay Gap Report by 4 April 2018 in accordance with the 
requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

The staff compliment at School does mean there is a salary distinction between academic staff and 
those in administrative and other support roles.  Gender Pay Gap Reporting nationwide seems to 
suggest this is the same in the vast majority of schools where in effect each department is a different 
“industry”, where it is clear some functions are more traditionally undertaken by male staff, others 
female staff.  We do not impose any gender stipulation in any role except perhaps in a very small 
number of cases where we generally need to employ a female to look after a girls’ boarding house 
and a male to look after a boys’ boarding house. 

Academic staff, irrespective of gender, are paid according to a series of salary scales, with different 
pay ranges dependent on which section of the school they work in (Senior, Junior or 
prep-Prep/Nursery).  The academic salary scales work on the basis of an automatic, annual 
incremental increase up to a certain ceiling, with each year’s progression representing a further 
year of teaching experience from initial qualification/recruitment.  No incremental scale operates 
within the administrative/support departments. 

Support staff are paid at an annual salary or an hourly rate appropriate to each specific role based 
upon local/regional norms for the type of work.   The rates of pay are irrespective of gender. 

The high percentages of female employees in the lower and lower middle quartiles are mainly 
domestic and catering staff, roles which seem to attract many more female applicants than male. 

King’s Ely’s Gender Pay Gap reporting figures are: 

Mean Gender Pay Gap: 

Median Gender Pay Gap: 

 

 

 

 

0.5% 

37.9% 

Proportion of Female to Male Employees:  

62% Female: 38% Male 

King’s Ely does not pay bonuses so the requirement to report bonus payments is not applicable. 

 

 
Male 
Female 

Quartiles 

 

Lower 
11.49% 
88.51% 

Lower Middle  Upper Middle 

38.64% 
61.36% 

43.18% 
56.82% 

Upper 
52.27% 
47.73% 

King’s Ely 
Cambridgeshire 
CB7 4EW 
 
Tel. +44 (0)1353 660701 
www.kingsely.org   

This exercise has reaffirmed to us that we pay the same rates for the same roles throughout the 
school, regardless of gender.  We believe firmly in equal pay for equal roles and our policies and 
procedures at the time of recruitment and throughout an employee’s time in the school reflect this. 

We will continue to monitor rates of pay to ensure there are no differential pay rates between 
genders performing in the same roles.   

I confirm the calculations are an accurate representation as of our position on 5 April 2017. 

 

Mrs Sue Freestone 
Principal 

 
 

