 

GENDER PAY REPORTING STATEMENT 

In line with all other organisations who employ more than 250 staff, Stockport Grammar School 
is required to publish their gender pay gap data. The gender pay gap shows the difference 
between the average earnings of men and women which is expressed as a percentage of men’s 
earnings. This requirement comes from the Equality Act (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 with the first effective period for reporting being 5th April 2017. The reporting 
date fell within the school term. 

The School is required to analyse and report on the average rate of pay for its male and female 
staff, providing the following information. At the snapshot date there were 189 female staff and 
77 male staff.  71% of our employees were female and our Senior School Senior Management 
Team was 50% female. 

Mean Gender Pay Gap  

Using the mean average pay, female employees were paid 20.03% less than male employees 

Median Gender Pay Gap  

Using the median average pay, female employees were paid 23.24% less than male employees 

The percentage of males and females in each quartile pay band is; 

Quartile 
Female 
1st (highest)  60.61% 
71.64% 
2nd 
3rd 
64.18% 
87.88% 
4th 

 

Number 
40 
48 
43 
58 

Male 
39.39% 
28.36% 
35.82% 
12.12% 

Number 
26 
19 
24 
8 

There were no bonus payments. The recorded figures are affected by staff for whom salary 
sacrifice arrangements are in place for the payment of school fees and for the receipt of 
childcare vouchers. 

Stockport Grammar School is committed to providing a fair working environment for all staff. 
The School does not discriminate on the rate of pay between male and female staff for the same 
role and the School is committed to ensuring that all staff are paid an appropriate rate of pay 
for the work that they do. 

Teaching staff are remunerated on an incremental scale that rewards then for their professional 
performance, wider contribution to the life of the School and their level of experience. Pay for 
Associate Staff is regularly reviewed and benchmarked on a national and local basis to ensure 
that pay correctly reflects the value and complexity of the work undertaken. Male and female 
staff at the School are treated equally on appointment and throughout their careers at the 
School. 

The School believes therefore that the gap in pay detailed reflects the nature of the School’s 
workforce which includes a mix of hourly paid and salaried staff and reflects the fact that some 
roles are carried out predominantly by female staff rather than a differential in pay for the same 
role undertaken by different genders. The School will continue to review rates of pay to ensure 
that they are unbiased and reflect the pay for similar roles in the wider market. 

I confirm that the data reported is true and accurate. 

 

Christopher Dunn 
Chairman of Governors 
 

