exercise of these shares relates to options granted over a number of previous 
years  and,  as  such,  is  not  representative  of  the  bonus  earned  in  the  year. 
Individuals  have  discretion  on  the  timing  as  to  when  to  exercise  their  share 
incentives.  Any  share  incentives  that  vested  but  were  not  exercised  are  not 
included in this  calculation.   When we adjust  for this factor, and exclude the 
impact of share exercises, our bonus gap drops to 8.7%. 
 
Proportion of employees receiving a bonus 

Males 
7% 

Females 
5% 

93
% 

No Bonus 
Bonus 

95
% 

No Bonus 
Bonus 

 

This shows a 2% difference in the number of men and women who received a 
bonus in the reference period.  We are confident that men and women have 
an equal opportunity to earn a bonus. 
 
 

 

Ensuring opportunities for All 

AMS believes in being an inclusive and diverse employer, where individuals are 
provided opportunities to develop and reach their full potential. 
 
Pay and Bonus Gap 

 

Gender pay gap 
Gender bonus gap 
Gender bonus gap (excluding share exercises) 

Mean 
11.2% 
60.3% 
8.7% 

Median 
6.1% 
0.0% 
0.0% 

 
The above table shows our mean and median gender pay gap and bonus gap 
as at the snapshot date (i.e. 5 April 2017). 
 
Our disclosable pay gap of  11.2%  is  below  the  estimated national  average  of 
22%1.   
 
Our  analysis  of  our  gender  gap  tells  us  this  is  largely  driven  by  the  fact  that 
women hold fewer senior positions than men.   Women made  up 41% of our 
overall workforce on the snapshot date, compared to 32% of women in upper 
quartile for pay. 
 
Our analysis suggests that when we adjust for this structural issue, our pay gap 
changes  to  -2.4%  (women  paid  more  than  men),  which  can  be  explained  by 
time in role or skill-set factors. 
 
Our bonus gap has been driven by a number of high value share exercises in 
the year to 5 April 2017, a large proportion of which were made by men.  The 

                                                           
1 As estimated in HMRC’s Gender Pay Gap 2010 report 

Male 
68% 
55% 
57% 
49% 

Female 
32% 
45% 
43% 
51% 

Pay Quartiles 
The below chart illustrates the gender distribution across AMS Ltd in four 
equally sized quartiles. 
 
Quartile 
Upper 
Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 
Lower 
 
As a responsible employer we are committed to  addressing diversity and are 
approaching  this  in  a  number  of  ways  to  promote  and  attract  more  senior 
candidates.  This  includes  flexible  working  (including  job  sharing,  part-time 
working,  flexitime,  career  break,  home  working),  development  opportunities 
(sponsorship  of  further  education,  coaching  and  mentoring,  personal 
development  plans)  and  our  recruitment  processes  (attraction  of  diverse 
talent pools). 
 
We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent 
jobs across the business. 
  
Our Gender Pay Gap figures have been calculated using the methodology 
provided in the gender pay gap reporting legislation; The Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  I confirm that these figures 
have been verified and checked to ensure accuracy. 
 
Mary Tavener, Chief Financial Officer 

