2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 

Omar Park Homes Limited has an enviable reputation for being the UK’s leading manufacturer of 
park homes and luxury lodges.  Established in 1965, Omar sets the industry standard for quality, de-
sign and innovation.   This Gender Pay Gap Report is based on data as at 5th April 2017.  At this date, 
Omar employed 392 staff with 348 (89%) being male and 44 (11%) being female. 

Our Pay and Bonus Gender Gap is as follows: 

Mean 

Median 

 

Pay 

-2% 

Bonus 

-56% 

-3% 

0% 

The Proportion of males/females in each quartile pay band is as follows: 

Male 

Female 

 

15%85%Lower2%98%Lower Middle15%85%Upper Middle13%88%UpperCommentary: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The UK average gender pay gap is 18% 

Omar’s Gender Pay Gap currently shows the average pay of our female 
employees to be 2% above that of their male colleagues, mainly driven 
by the sheer volume of male employees in manufacturing roles with fe-
male employees being mainly represented in professional and support 
roles 

There are no differences in pay rates for different genders occupying 
equivalent roles 

The difference in the mean bonus figure is explained by the number of 
female employees who have attracted a discretionary performance bo-
nus in the past year.  75% of female employees received a bonus pay-
ment in the 12 months to 5th April 2017, compared to 74% of males. 

Overtime is not considered in calculating Gender Pay Gap and the large 
majority of male employees in the manufacturing area are able to work 
regular overtime if they choose.  Overtime is not typically available to 
office-based employees. 

The industry is quite heavily male dominated with only about 1 in 10 em-
ployees being female, as traditionally heavy manufacturing and skilled 
construction trades have not been areas that females have entered into 
when selecting a career.  This results in the majority of the female em-
ployees at Omar being in the more traditional professional and adminis-
trative roles. 

It should be noted that we have 1 female member of the Senior Leader-
ship Team and 5 females in senior business roles, managing functional 
areas. 

In determining pay and reward for our employees we balance a number 
of factors, including the economic climate, company performance as well 
as external market rates for equivalent roles.   

 

Karen Wilson, HR Director.  31st August 2017 

