 

 

 
Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017 
 
Under the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 2017, New College has a legal duty to 
report on gender pay. 
 
The college’s gender pay gap for the snapshot period of 31 March 2017 is: 
 

Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap  
No bonus payments were made during the snapshot period.  

11.8% 
29.7% 

 
Proportion of males and females in each quartile band  

 

Quartile Bands - male/female split

Lower

21.3%

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

28.7%

28.7%

78.7%

71.3%

71.3%

Upper

41.0%

59.0%

0.0%

20.0%

40.0%

60.0%

80.0% 100.0% 120.0%

Male

Female

 

Note that the New College population is 70% female. 

 

  The mean hourly rate of pay for all male full pay relevant employees is £22.28 
  The mean hourly rate of pay for all female full pay relevant employees is £19.64 

 

  The median hourly rate of pay for all male full pay relevant employees is £22.42 
  The median hourly rate of pay for all female full pay relevant employees is £15.74 

 
New College reviews all of its policies and practices to ensure that discrimination does not occur and are confident 
that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent work.  The 
gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation and the salaries that 
these roles attract.   
 
Across the UK as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in senior roles, especially very senior roles at the top 
of organisations, while women are more likely than men to be in front line roles at the lower end of the organisation.  
Many  women  take  time  out  of  the  labour  market  and  work  part  time  because  of  unequal  sharing  of  care 
responsibilities which affects career progression. 
 
The pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the makeup of New College’s workforce where many of 
the front line support roles are held by women and proportionally more men hold senior roles. 
 
 
 

Comparison with UK national average and education sector 
 
The UK’s median gender pay gap is currently 19.2%, the education sector median is 25.7%.  At 29.7%, New College’s 
median pay gap is close to the sector average. 
   
 

New College Swindon 
 

2015 ONS Annual Survey of Hours & Earnings 

Education Sector 

National Average 

Median gender pay gap 

29.7% 

25.7% 

19.2% 

 
In addition, the ONS report that the UK gender pay gap for employees aged over 40 remains significant at 25.5%, the 
college’s median age is currently 46. 
 
Closing the gender pay gap at New College – Action Plan 

New College is committed to continuing to do everything that it can to reduce the gap. 
 
There is rigorous oversight by the HR function at the college to ensure that there is no gender bias in any recruitment 
and selection or career promotion process. 
 
Staff with caring responsibilities are well served at New College with options including flexible working patterns, part 
time and term time contracts, one year career breaks, salary sacrifice child care vouchers and a nursery offering a 5% 
discount  near  the  main  site.  In  particular  the  rate  of  return  after  maternity  leave  is  high  with  contract  flexibility 
available.   
 
As part of the college’s promotion of equal opportunities and the zero tolerance approach to gender bias, Equality and 
Diversity training is a mandatory part of the new staff induction for all new employees.  
 
The college’s current action plan to close the gender pay gap includes 

  a detailed assessment of starting salaries backed up with tracking and monitoring for all new staff in order to 

inform negotiations 

  a review of the college’s Pay and Grading Policy and Procedure 
  a review of the college’s pay scales  
 

complying with 2017 statutory regulations on pay audits 

 
In addition we will 

 

 

further promote family friendly flexible working opportunities to encourage both male and female staff with 
caring responsibilities to discuss arrangements which will not inhibit career progression 
consult with unions and staff representative groups as part of a review of the family friendly policies 

 
Focus on the next generation 

  Equality and Diversity is embedded into all study programmes and apprenticeship programmes as well as the 

tutorial programmes, promoting equal opportunity and dispelling gender stereotypes 

  The college in its work with local school partnerships, will continue to raise young people’s awareness of the 

different career opportunities available, to help dispel any misperceptions and stereotypes 

 

 

Maureen Debbage 
New College  
Vice Principal & Director of Human Resources 
February 2018 

