Steven Eagell Group

Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

1

steveneagell.co.ukEstablished in 2002, Steven Eagell Group have grown to be an award-winning company 
and the leading Toyota and Lexus dealer group in the UK. We operate in over 20 locations 
across Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex, Hertfordshire, Norfolk, 
Northamptonshire and Suffolk.

Our foremost objective is to offer complete customer satisfaction to every one of our valued 
customers. In order to achieve this, we recognise the importance of offering excellent training 
and career progression opportunities to our employees, which helps us grow and expand our 
business.

2

steveneagell.co.ukGender Pay Gap 
Reporting 2017

Fairness, inclusion and equal opportunity for 
all are at the heart of everything we do.  We are 
confident that men and women are paid equally 
for doing equivalent jobs across our business.  

The automotive industry is traditionally male 
dominated, but we are working hard to remedy 
the imbalance between men and women within 
our business.  

We are committed to redressing the situation to 
ensure all departments, divisions and sites across 
the business are focused on attracting, retaining 
and developing female employees.

How will we do this
We have a flexible working policy and procedure 
in place to improve the work-life balance of our 
employees and hope this will encourage more 
women to join our team and to build a long-term 
career within the Group.

We actively support young people with apprenticeship opportunities across our business.  
Our technician apprenticeship programmes are run through Lexus UK and Toyota GB, and as we 
currently have no female technicians, we plan to encourage the recruitment of more girls onto 
our technician training programmes and to have at least one by the end of 2018.

We are committed to increasing our female workforce by at least 5% by 2020.

Steven Eagell
Managing Director

We confirm the data reported is accurate.  In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017, Steven Eagell Group is required to carry out Gender Pay Gap reporting.

3

steveneagell.co.ukHannah Griggs, Service Manager, Steven Eagell Toyota (Chelmsford)

Gender pay and bonus reporting data 
for staff employed at 5th April, 2017

Explanation of gender pay gap
The gender pay gap measures the difference 
between the average man and woman’s 
remuneration and is expressed as a percentage of 
men’s pay.  

workforce consisted of 522 males and 171 females. 67+

Our workforce
As a result of the historic male dominance in the 
automotive industry, we were expecting to find an 
unbalanced split between male and female staff.  

We collected our data on 5th April, 2017, when our 

Workforce gender split

4

67%
Male

33% 
Female

steveneagell.co.uk33
Gender Pay
The data for both mean and median hourly rates of pay and bonus reflects the demographic of our 
business which has more males at senior level and so, as would be expected, our average male salary, 
both mean and median, is higher than that for females.  

This gap will continue to be the case but we are striving to achieve a fairer representation of males and 
females across all levels of the business.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Difference in mean (average) hourly rate of pay:   

Difference in median (middle) hourly rate of pay: 

24.14%

13.45%

Of the employees who receive a bonus, 

Gender bonus
The bonus pay data confirms that 44% of employees receive a bonus.  Of the 44% who receive a bonus, 
76% are male and 24% female.  

the split is as follows76+
48+
Males receiving a bonus 33+

Difference in mean (average) bonus pay:   46.7%
 
Difference in median (middle) bonus pay: 42.7%

 

Percentage females and males receiving a bonus

48%
Bonus

52% 
No bonus

67% 
No Bonus

33%
Bonus

Females receiving a bonus

76%
Male

24% 
Female

Pay Banding
The following illustrates the gender distribution at Steven Eagell Group across four equally 
sized quartiles, each containing 173 employees.

Pay gap by quartile:
Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

19.08%

2.91%

0.68%

-10.34%

5

steveneagell.co.uk24
52
67
Claire Keymer, Host, Steven Eagell Toyota (Peterborough)

© 2018 Steven Eagell Ltd. Head Office: Merton Drive, Redmoor, Milton Keynes, MK6 4AG. Registered Office: 10 Queen Street Place, London, 
EC4R 1AG. Registered In England, No. 4370971

steveneagell.co.uk