 

 

Greggs Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

In 2018, for the first time UK companies with over 250 employees have to report on their gender pay 
gap.  

At Greggs we are committed to treating our people equally and ensuring that everyone – no matter 
what their background, race, ethnicity or gender - has an opportunity to develop. This is really 
important to us. We are confident that our gender pay gap is not caused by men and women being 
paid differently to do the same job but is driven instead by the structure of our workforce.  

Gender & Bonus Pay Gap  

As of the snapshot date (5 April 2017) the table below shows our overall mean and median gender 
pay gap and bonus pay gap based on hourly rates of pay.  The percentage shown is the difference in 
overall mean and median pay and bonus between men and women: 

 

 

Hourly Pay Gap  
Bonus Pay Gap  

 

Difference between men and women  

 

Mean (Average) 

Median (Mid range)  

21.66% 
53.88% 

11.71% 
52.20% 

Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 

 

77% 

72% 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

23%

77%

28%

72%

Received a bonus payment (%) 
Did not receive a bonus payment (%) 

 
 

The above shows that 5% more of our females than our males received a bonus payment for their 
performance in 2016. 

 

 

 

Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile      
 
We have divided our population into four equal-sized pay quartiles, each containing 4,474 people. 
The graphs below show the percentage of males and females in each of these quartiles.   

 

 

 

 

 

73%

27%

15%

25%

85%

75%

Female (%) 
Male (%) 
 

 

49%

51%

Bottom Quartile 

 

Second Quartile 

Third Quartile 

Top Quartile 

This shows that in common with many other businesses, particularly those in our sector, we employ 
many more females than males in front line operations. However, this is not the case in the top pay 
quartile of our business where the proportions are almost equal. 

When looking at pay differentials by quartile the table below shows that there is no significant 
gender pay differential in the first three quartiles. Indeed in these quartiles females are paid slightly 
more on average than males. 

The gender pay gap is confined to the top quartile of our business where females earn an average of 
16% less than males. 

Analysis of our data for this quartile shows that this pay gap does not arise from males and females 
doing the same job/at the same level of management being paid differently. The gap in average pay 
and average bonus pay is due to the fact that we have fewer females in our most senior 
management grades. Males represent 60% of our top three management grades and it is this 
imbalance that we need to address.    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Top Quartile 

Third Quartile 

16% pay differential 

 

2% pay differential 

Second Quartile 

-1% pay differential 

Bottom Quartile 

-2% pay differential 

 

 

 

So what is next for Greggs? 

We are committed to reducing our gender pay gap and to continue to support the development of 
all our colleagues and in particular our talented female colleagues into Senior Management roles. 
We are already working on this and at Board level we have exceeded government guidelines with 
43% of our Board being women.  

Board composition is easier to address because non- executive appointments are governed by 
tenure guidelines creating a constant cycle of new recruitment. 

Opportunities to increase female representation at the most senior executive management grades 
are less frequent, as they necessarily depend on vacancies becoming available within that team and 
historically, turnover at senior management level has been low.   

Nevertheless we are making progress and have recently increased female representation at the 
most senior management grade now accounting for 25% of direct reports to the CEO. As a member 
of the Women’s Business Council, we are committed to investing in several programmes to develop 
female leaders at Greggs focusing on support for female career development and flexible working as 
a key enabler. We are supporting the work of the Women’s Business Council through participation in 
the ‘Getting On’ work stream and ‘Men as Agents of Change’. Various programmes of activity are 
being planned and undertaken at Greggs and include:  

  Women Career Development Roadshows across the country creating an opportunity for our 

 

senior women to share their career journeys and aspirations.   
Licenses for the Everywoman Network providing a series of online learning resources including 
inspirational videos and practical downloadable toolkits. 

  A career development programme targeting high potential females identified through 

succession planning 

  A Sponsorship and mentoring programme to build confidence and identify development needs  
  Training and support on unconscious bias and behaviours  
 

As well as these initiatives, flexible working and supporting females through maternity is a key 
enabler to retaining and developing female talent in the business. Encouraging an open attitude 
towards flexible solutions to fit with personal circumstances is seeing everything from job sharing to 
part time contracts and flexible hours emerge as successful arrangements with Greggs.  

We are making progress in all of these areas and are confident we will see a growing female 
representation at our highest management grades in the years ahead.  

I can confirm that the data contained within this report is accurate. 

Roger Whiteside  

Chief Executive   

 

 

