Gender Pay Gap Report

Springfield is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report.

This is our report for the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.  The figures set out here have been calculated using the standard methodologies

used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

At Springfield males and females are paid the same.

On average women at Springfield are paid 0.1%* more than men based on the 
mean calculation.
Whilst the majority of our workforce are men, we have a strong representation of women 
throughout our organisation including at a senior level. In addition our sales team are 
commission based and can achieve additional earnings. 95% of these employees are women.
* This calculation is the difference between the mean (average) hourly pay rate for all men in an 
organisation, and the mean hourly rate for all women, expressed as a percentage of the mean hourly 
rate for men.

Based on median pay men at Springfield are paid 5.9%* more than women. On average men in the UK 
are paid 18.4% more than women.
* This calculation is the difference between the median (middle) value of hourly pay rates (when ordered from lowest to highest) for 
  all men in an organisation, and the median value of hourly pay rates for all women, expressed as a percentage of the median 
  hourly rate for men.

77 women and 403 men work at Springfield
The majority of our employees are male, 84%, which is typical
 in the construction industry.The large majority of these are site 
operatives and trades people. 71% of our salaried employees are male.

On average women receive 363%* more bonus pay than men
*This is the difference between the mean (average) value of bonuses, for all 
men in an organisation and the mean value of bonuses for all women, 
expressed as a percentage of the mean bonus for men.

On average women recieved 363% 
more bonus pay than men

Women receive 1,123%* more bonus pay than men based on median calculation.
*This is the difference between the median (middle) value of bonuses for all men in an organisation and the median value of 
  bonuses for all women, as a percentage of the median bonus for men.
45% of our workforce consists of predominantly male hourly paid site operatives/trades who are eligible for overtime 
and may receive a modest discretionary annual bonus based on organisational performance. In contrast 95% of our sales 
team are female and have the opportunity to receive significant incentives based on their performance. We have a strong 
representation of women throughout our company, including at board level. These are the main reasons for the mean 
and median gender bonus gap in favour of women.

The proportion of male and the proportion of female employees in Springfield receiving a bonus.
All employees are generally eligible to receive a bonus or incentive. 87% of men and 77% of women recieved a bonus.

1.    

Alexander Fleming House • 8 Southfield Drive • Elgin • IV30 6GR

Pay Quartiles
This table illustrates the proportion of male and female employees according to quartile pay bands.

Quartiles 
 
Lower quartile   
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Upper quartile   

Men
78%
85%
86%
82%

Women

22%
15%
14%
18%

We are confident that men and women are paid fairly and appropriately for work of equal value.

I, Innes Smith, Chief Executive Officer, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.

Signed:   

 

 

 

 

 

Date: 03/04/2018.

2.    

Alexander Fleming House • 8 Southfield Drive • Elgin • IV30 6GR

