Havant Borough Council (HBC) Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Background 
 
As a result of the Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017, employers with 250 or more employees are now required to 
publish statutory gender pay gap calculations annually. This includes the following:  

•  Gender pay gap (mean and median values)  

•  Gender bonus gap (mean and median values)  

•  Proportion of men and women receiving bonuses  

•  Proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s pay structure.  
 
The salary data is based on the required snapshot date of 31 March 2017 and is 
published in line with the required timescale of 30 March 2018. It is important to note 
that during this period there has been a significant change in the profile of the 
workforce.  Some employees have been transferred from Council employment in 
2017 and as a consequence of the Council outsourcing services to a third-party 
contractor, there will be differences in the staff profile for the 2018 “snapshot”. 

At Havant Borough Council there are no bonus or similar type of payments in place 
and so there is nothing to report or publish under this heading. There are some 
market supplements paid but these are captured as part of ordinary pay and the 
figures used for hourly pay have been increased to take account of the impact of 
these additional amounts. 

This data is published on the Council website, made available to staff and the 
Gender Pay Gap service government website.  

It is important to note that this data does not directly relate to the issue of Equal Pay 
and further explanation is provided later.  

 
Data  
 
On the snapshot date of 31st March 2017, 264 people were employed by Havant 
Borough Council.  

For the purposes of calculating the pay gap, a slightly smaller population of 260 
people has been used, as this excludes those people on reduced pay due to 
maternity leave or sickness absence where they were in receipt of reduced pay. 

Of the 260 people in scope, 154 (59%) were female and 106 (41%) were male. 

 

 

 

 
1 

Gender Pay Gap 

The results of the Gender Pay Gap survey are as follows: 
 
 

Public 
Sector 

  

Median 

Mean 

Male 
£16.34 per 
hr 
£17.39 per 
hr 

Female 
£12.72 per 
hr 
£14.36 per 
hr 

Difference 

Percentage 

Benchmark 

£3.62 per hr 

22.15% 

19.4% 

 

£3.03 per hr 

17.45% 

17.7% 

 

 
 
The gender pay gap means that when the average (mean) and median (central 
point) of all male and female hourly pay rates are compared, the value for male 
employees is greater than that for female employees. 
 
The main reason for this is that within the higher paid roles within Havant Borough 
Council there are a larger proportion of men than women -  this is simply illustrated in 
the quartile information below.  
 
This is the first year that has required mandatory reporting of the Gender Pay Gap 
and so there is limited data available for benchmarking purposes. However, the ONS 
have an Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings and the information they have 
published for 2017 (released on 26th October 2017) provided the above 
benchmarking data for the Public Sector. It is included here for initial comparison 
purposes and this will be extended in future years as more data becomes available. 
 
 
Distribution of Males and Females   
 
When the workforce is ranked byhourly pay rate and then divided into four equal 
groups, the percentage split of the workforce across the four pay quartiles by gender 
is as follows: 
 

Quartiles 
Q1 Lower 
Q2 Lower Middle 
Q3 Upper Middle 
Q4 Upper  
Whole workforce 

Male 
23% 
38% 
37% 
65% 
41% 

Female 

77% 
62% 
63% 
35% 
59% 

 
 
Factors that contribute to Gender Pay Gap in Havant Borough Council 
 

•  The management level and qualified staff within many of the professional service 

areas provided by HBC, e.g. Planning, Building Control and Environmental 
Health, have historically been dominated by male employees. Over time, the 

 

 
2 

impact of incremental pay means that more male staff are found at the top of 
their pay scales and these professional roles will be in the upper quartiles. 

•  Waste collection, a service usually dominated by a large number of male 

workers and paid at the lower rates of pay, is outsourced in HBC which will have 
had an impact on the lower percentage of male workers in this group.  

 
 
Policies already in place to promote gender pay equality 
 
•  Equality policy 
•  Flexitime policy 
•  Flexible working options including parental leave  
•  Fair and transparent processes relating to promotion, pay and reward and terms 

and conditions of employment  

•  Open recruitment processes, supported by selection based upon merit. The 

approach is underpinned by training on the recruitment process making 
appointment decisions based upon the requirements of the role as defined in Job 
Descriptions and Person Specifications 

•  Assistance to acquire professional qualifications  
•  Factor based JE Scheme covering all roles 
•  Positive Trade Union engagement and collective bargaining 
 
We recognise that further work could be done to address this issue and some 
actions planned include: 
 
 
Proposed improvement actions  
 

•  Learning and Development Programme 
•  Using our existing Cultures Change Champions to examine the issues and 

create positive case studies and action plans 

•  Collection and analysis of reasons for leaving leading to action plans to bring 

about positive change  

•  Exploring recruitment processes to remove any barriers that might deter 

female applicants for senior roles 

•  A review of senior pay levels 
•  Promotion of flexible working and widening participation specially of men 

using parental leave 

•  Development of talent management and succession planning processes 
•  Further and earlier analysis of 2017 and 2018 data 
 

 

 
 

 

 
3 

Equal Pay  
 
It is important to remember that the presence of a gender pay gap does not imply 
that there is an Equal Pay issue within an organisation 
 
Equal Pay is the right for men and women to equal treatment in their terms and 
conditions of employment for work that is the same or broadly similar. It’s an aspect 
of UK equalities legislation which has been in force for over 40 years. 
 
The Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) explains the 
difference in the following way: 
 
“The gender pay gap is not the same as pay discrimination or equal pay. The gender 
pay gap is calculated by taking all employees in an organisation and comparing the 
average pay between men and women. Equal pay rules outlaw pay differences in 
men and women’s pay for same or similar work. It’s possible for an employer that 
treats its women fairly in terms of pay to have a large gender pay gap, and for an 
organisation that treats its female workers unfairly to have a small gap”1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caroline Tickner 
Head of Organisational Development 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sandy Hopkins 
Chief Executive 
 
Havant Borough Council & East Hampshire District Council 
 
 
 
March 2018 
 
 

                                                             
 

 

 
4 

