H E A LT H     W E A LT H     C A R E E R

O U R   2 0 1 7   
U K  G E N D E R   PAY  G A P 
R E P O R T

Mercer Limited

M E R C E R

W E ’ R E   O N   A   M I S S I O N   F O R   T H E   A D VA N C E M E N T   O F   W O M E N   AT   W O R K

At Mercer, we are committed to accelerating the advancement of 
women at work, both inside and outside our firm. We’re on a mission to 
ensure our colleagues reach their own full potential – through bringing 
their whole selves to work, having diverse role models to look up to and 
being rewarded fairly and equally. We know that when women thrive, 
businesses and societies thrive.

At Mercer we make a difference in the health, wealth and career of 
over 110 million people every day around the world. We know that we 
can do this only because of the efforts of each and every one of our 
colleagues. That is why rewarding our employees fairly and equally is 
fundamental to our business. 

Our commitment is evident through our EDGE certification, being 
on The Times UK Top 50 Employers for Women list and our extensive 
global gender parity research project “When Women Thrive”. In the UK 
we have introduced targets to increase our senior female population 
to 30% by 2020. We have a majority female Board (4 women and 3 
men) with a female Chair and female CEO and a gender balanced UK 
Executive Leadership team. We encourage flexible working for all,  
which contributes to our strong maternity return rates of over 80%. 
But we’re not stopping there. Like many organisations we have more 
work to do and are on a continuous journey to further women’s 
progression in the workplace. In this report we highlight some of the 

2

activities already undertaken and those we are planning to further our 
objectives around gender parity. 

UK Gender Pay Gap reporting

The Gender Pay Gap and Bonus Pay Gap analysis looks at the mean and  
median across the entire company for women and men. This is different 
from equal pay, which relates to any difference in individual pay between  
women and men within specific jobs. Our UK results show a Gender Pay  
Gap. Through our detailed analysis, we know that this gap comes from  
our workforce profile – that is, we have more men than women in senior  
positions. We see this result as a challenge to redouble our efforts to 
ensure we attract, retain and advance a diverse group of colleagues to  
achieve balance across our business. We monitor equal pay on an ongoing  
basis and have rigorous processes for reviewing and monitoring pay and 
promotions as a fundamental part of our annual compensation process.

Thank you for taking the time to learn more about this important topic 
and our efforts at Mercer.

Fiona Dunsire 
UK CEO, Mercer Limited

O U R   2 0 1 7   U K   G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

The Gender Pay Gap...

Equal pay...

£

£

...not to be 

confused with...

the difference between the gross hourly 
earnings for all men and the gross hourly 

earnings for all women

32.9% 34.5%

men and women being 
paid the same for the 

same work

O U R   G E N D E R   PAY   G A P
The Gender Pay Gap shows the gap between the mean 
and median earnings of women and the mean and 
median earnings of men within the company, and the 
Bonus Pay Gap shows the gap between the mean and 
median bonus paid to women and the mean and median 
bonus paid to men. The mean (or average) is calculated 
by adding up the gross hourly earnings of employees in  
the relevant group and dividing that figure by the number  
of employees in that group. The median is the number in 
the middle of a ranking of pay from lowest to highest. 

In other words, Gender Pay Gap and Bonus Pay Gap 
look at the mean and median across the entire company 
for women and men. This is different from equal 
pay, which relates to any difference in individual pay 
between women and men within specific jobs. We have 
rigorous processes for reviewing and monitoring pay 
and promotions as a fundamental part of our annual 
compensation process.

These numbers tell a story... but not the complete story. 
We’ve undertaken further analysis to understand the 
root causes and identify how we can close the gap.

Careful with comparisons
Mercer in the UK is a limited company, which means our Gender Pay Gap takes account of all our people across all levels of the organisation. Some other 
professional services firms are partnerships (e.g. an LLP or similar), and government regulations exclude partners in these firms from the Gender Pay Gap 
calculation. This can make it difficult to compare these figures between businesses.

3

M E R C E R

PAY   Q U A R T I L E S

64%

62%

36%

38%

52%

48%

67%

33%

 
What we know
•  There are more men in more senior, higher paid roles. 
•  We are working to improve the diversity at all levels of our 

business.

Quartile 4

Lower

Quartile 3
Lower Middle

Quartile 2
Upper Middle

Quartile 1

Higher

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P

G E N D E R   B O N U S   G A P

What we know
•  Because of our workforce profile (more men in more senior 

roles), we have a Gender Pay Gap.

What we know
•  Our Gender Bonus Gap reflects our pay philosophy – in 

common with many companies in the market, employees at 
a more senior level have a larger percentage of their pay 
that is variable. This approach, combined with having more 
men in more senior roles, drives our Gender Bonus Gap.

•  In roles that are bonus eligible, men and women are equally 

likely to receive a bonus.

4

O U R   2 0 1 7   U K   G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

W H AT   W E   A R E   D O I N G   T O   C L O S E   O U R   G A P
Our reported gap is primarily driven by a greater representation of men in higher 
paid, more senior roles and we continue work towards an equal gender split  
across all levels. Here are a few of the activities already undertaken and those 
we are planning to further our objectives around gender parity:
•  Recruiting a diverse workforce – it’s critical that we build and maintain a 
broad and talented pipeline and recruit from a wide range of candidate 
pools at all levels. For our graduate recruitment programme we strive 
for a gender balanced intake each year, and for senior hires we have a 
requirement for diverse shortlists. We will of course continue to hire the 
best candidates. We won’t be able to do this though if we don’t access the 
widest possible talent pool.

•  Promoting equally – in 2017 promotions were nearly equally split between 

men and women, with the number of women promoted being slightly higher. 
Over time, this is an important part of how we will achieve a better gender 
balance in more senior roles and reach our target of having women in 30% 
of our most senior roles by 2020. Unconscious bias training is mandatory 
for our people managers and offered to all staff.

•  Engaging across the business – diversity and inclusion efforts have the 

most impact when the entire organisation is behind them. For some years 
we have been hosting open dialogue sessions through our Engaging Men 
programme, which features interactive sessions with senior male leaders 
as panellists discussing the role of men in creating a more inclusive 
environment for everyone at Mercer. Our business resource group,  
The Vine, is Mercer’s UK network promoting gender equality and is open  
to all colleagues seeking to drive positive change in the business.

•  Providing positive role models – we know we retain colleagues when they 
can see “people like me” leading the business. We’re proud that within the 
UK, we have a female CEO, a female Chair of our Board, as well as a gender 
balanced Board and Executive Leadership team. 

•  Supporting flexible working – enabling our people to balance work and life 

commitments is fundamental to helping us retain and promote the best 
people. We start from a perspective of saying “yes” to all flexible working 
requests, and have recently launched a campaign to ensure that both men 
and women take advantage of these opportunities.

•  Supporting the return to work – in 2017 over 80% of our colleagues on 

maternity leave returned to work. We’re currently reviewing our parental 
leave return process to ensure a smooth return to work and support our 
long-term colleague retention.

•  Monitoring our progress – we analyse and report regularly on our progress 
at the Board level. This has included, for example, analysis by gender of our 
employee survey results and follow-up focus groups to understand the 
drivers of these results.

Immediate actions and long-term evolution
Some steps to help reduce the Gender Pay Gap can have an immediate 
impact, while others require a longer timeframe before results can be seen. 
We’re confident that we’ve implemented all of the immediate actions,  
and are focused now on the activities that will deliver meaningful results 
over time.

5

M E R C E R

Our efforts to date have been recognised through our inclusion in The Times UK 2017 Top 50 Employers for  
Women list. 

Additionally, in 2017, we were awarded the ASSESS level certification from EDGE, the global business certification  
for gender equality. This demonstrates that Mercer: 

•  Fosters an inclusive workplace culture with high engagement levels by both male and female colleagues 

• 

Is above average in the share of women across the talent pipeline when compared with our peers in both 
commercial and professional service companies 

•  Proactively manages gender pay equity, and 

•  Effectively implements gender equality policies and practices.

6

O U R   2 0 1 7   U K   G E N D E R   P A Y   G A P   R E P O R T

O U T WA R D   L O O K I N G   D I V E R S I T Y
We’re committed to making a positive difference for our clients, in our communities and society at large.

For many of our clients, we provide rigorous, regular workforce analysis. Our Internal Labour Market Analysis 
framework is a way of quantifying and explaining internal labour market dynamics to accelerate the achievement 
of diversity objectives. The methodology relies upon a set of statistical models that quantify the drivers of the key 
workforce dynamics (e.g., pay, promotion, retention) and how these drivers vary by gender and race/ethnicity.  
By quantifying key relationships, organisations can objectively prioritise the actions to most effectively achieve  
their workforce objectives.

Mercer has shown itself to be a thought leader in the push for gender diversity. Since 2014 we have published 
our When Women Thrive, Businesses Thrive research, showcased in partnership with the World Economic Forum 
at Davos. The most comprehensive research on women in the workplace, When Women Thrive is designed to help 
all organisations drive growth through the active and productive participation of their female workforce. More 
information is available at www.whenwomenthrive.net.

The Actuarial Mentoring Programme 

In the UK, we have also engaged with a number of important external organisations that support career advancement 
for women, including: 
• 
•  Creating Inclusive Cultures 
• 
The Cherie Blair Foundation 
•  Women on Boards 
• 

•  Professional Women’s Network 
•  30% Club 
•  HM Treasury’s Woman in Finance Charter,  

The Business in the Community Workplace  
Gender Equality campaign 

of which Mercer is a signatory 
International Women of Excellence.

• 

D E C L A R AT I O N
We confirm Mercer Limited’s gender pay gap calculations are accurate and meet the requirements of the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Fiona Dunsire, UK CEO, Mercer Limited

7

WHEN WOMEN THRIVE, BUSINESSES AND SOCIETIES THRIVEHEALTH  WEALTH  CAREERACCELERATING FOR IMPACT 2018 GENDER INFLECTION POINTIMPORTANT NOTICES 

References to Mercer shall be construed to include Mercer LLC 
and/or its associated companies. 

© 2016 Mercer LLC. All rights reserved.

This contains confidential and proprietary information of Mercer 
and is intended for the exclusive use of the parties to whom it 
was provided by Mercer. Its content may not be modified, sold, or 
otherwise provided, in whole or in part, to any other person or 
entity, without Mercer’s prior written permission.

The findings, ratings, and/or opinions expressed herein are the 
intellectual property of Mercer and are subject to change without 
notice. They are not intended to convey any guarantees as to the 
future performance of the investment products, asset classes, or 
capital markets discussed. Past performance does not guarantee 
future results. Mercer’s ratings do not constitute individualized 
investment advice.

Information contained herein has been obtained from a range of 
third-party sources. While the information is believed to be reliable, 
Mercer has not sought to verify it independently. As such, Mercer 
makes no representations or warranties as to the accuracy of 
the information presented and takes no responsibility or liability 
(including for indirect, consequential, or incidental damages), for 
any error, omission, or inaccuracy in the data supplied by any  
third party.

This does not contain regulated investment advice in respect 
of actions you should take. No investment decision should be 
made based on this information without obtaining prior specific, 
professional advice relating to your own circumstances.

This does not constitute an offer or a solicitation of an offer to 
buy or sell securities, commodities, and/or any other financial 
instruments or products or constitute a solicitation on behalf of any 
of the investment managers, their affiliates, products, or strategies 
that Mercer may evaluate or recommend.

For Mercer’s conflict of interest disclosures, contact your Mercer 
representative or see www.mercer.com/conflictsofinterest.

For further information, please contact your 
local Mercer office or visit our website at
www.uk.mercer.com.

Copyright 2016 Mercer LLC. All rights reserved.    21325-RE

8

© 2018 Mercer LLC. All rights reserved.

Issued in the United Kingdom by Mercer Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Registered in England No. 984275. Registered Office: 1 Tower Place West, Tower Place, London, EC3R 5BU

