RAU Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference between the average earnings 
of men and women, expressed relative to men’s earnings (Government Equalities Office).  

 

  

The gender pay gap is calculated in two ways: mean and median.   

The median figure shows the percentage difference in hourly pay of females compared to males at 
the midpoint of each of the male and female salary ranges.  For RAU there is no overall gender pay 
gap using this measure as the gap is 0%. 

The mean figure shows the percentage difference in the average hourly pay for females compared 
with average hourly pay for males across the overall University pay range. This measure shows a 
gender pay gap of 14.1%.   

The mean gender pay gap is below the national UK average of 18.4% and is in line with the sector 
average of 14.8%. The RAU figure shows a slight improvement on 2015 data which indicated the 
gender pay gap for the University was 14.6% at that time, although this was based on a slightly 
different data set.  

 

 

Our workforce overall is 51% female and 49% male and along with most other Universities, the 
distribution of men and women among the quartiles is very different. 

 The RAU continues to directly employ its own staff in the lower paid occupations of catering, 
cleaning, clerical and retail compared to many other Universities in the sector who outsource these 
services. The large numbers of staff in these roles together with the differing proportions of males 
and females across them has had an effect on the gender pay gap. Our lowest grades show a 
difference in salary between men and women of between 1.8% and 3%, with women earning slightly 
more than men. 

The more difficult challenge we face as a University is the distribution of men and women at senior 
level, particularly within our academic population. Analysis of our data indicates that the RAU’s 
gender pay gap arises predominantly from the top quartile of our pay scale, due to the higher 
proportion of male academic staff in these roles.  This reflects broader trends in society and issues 
particular to our land based industry sector and occupations. It is also common in the HE sector for 
teaching and research staff to take considerable time to develop the portfolio of skills needed for 
career progression, which can disproportionately affect women in taking longer to progress to senior 
roles.   

The RAU acknowledges that the data in this report indicates a gender pay gap that needs to be 
addressed, and is confident of moving in the right direction through continuing its efforts to address 
discrimination and gender equality. As part of our focus on this, the RAU has undertaken 
unconscious bias training with all its employees. The University has also recently significantly 
increased the proportion of women in the most senior appointments and is in the process of 
reviewing our academic promotion criteria and processes.   

In addition to the steps RAU is taking to monitor its gender pay gap, it undertakes to review this data 
annually in line with reporting requirements.  

 

 

