Gender Pay Gap Report 2018 
Oakman Inns & Restaurants Ltd 
Reporting date 5th April 2017 

 

Under the requirements set out in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 Oakman Inns & Restaurants Ltd are required to report and publish their 
information on its gender pay gap. 
 
Oakman Inns & Restaurants Ltd report as at 5th April 2017 

 
 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

9% 

                     
 
 
 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

18.4% 

 
 

 

UK Median for full and part time employees 2017 is reported as 18.4% (Source Office 
for National Statistics). Oakman Inns are reporting below this figure at 9% 
 

 

 

 
 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap 

70.8% 

 
 
 
 

Median Bonus Pay Gap 

32% 

 
 

 

The proportion of bonuses being received is 59 Male to 35 Female. 
 

 
Quartile Results 

Pay Distribution 
Upper Quartile 
Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 
Lower Quartile 

 

Male 
72.2% 
62.2% 
60.4% 
37.8% 

Female 
27.8% 
37.8% 
39.6% 
62.6% 

 
 

 

 

 

The Company has, from its inception, been committed to the principles of equal pay for the role 
performed within the Company. Oakman Inns are satisfied that the hourly pay per job role is equal for 

all against the national minimum wage, developmental stepped pay increases and experience a team 
member brings to the Company. 

Our  hourly  paid  team  members  are  employed  against  our  Values  and  receive  developmental 
progression; these payrates are fully visible and communicated and measured using our Oakmanology 
learning platform. 

Our industry attracts those seeking part-time roles whilst remaining in education, in addition to those 
choosing the pub industry as a career.  

For our salaried employees Oakman Inns are satisfied that parity exists across job roles with structured 
salary bands being reviewed annually against market rates and business performance. 

Oakman Inns currently have a higher proportion of males in full time senior roles as compared to 
females thus creating the reported gender pay gap as pay rates reflect the market rate for these roles. 
When analysing these calculations, the senior chef population is predominately all male and their rates 
driven by the skills shortage prevalent in this sector. We are pleased that our current position shows 
that we now have 39% Female General Mangers representing a significant shift from 10% in April 2017 
and the average pay is equal to their male colleagues 

The  Company  has  a  reported  strategy  of  developing  talent  from  within  and  our  future  pipeline 
indicates  there  are  more  females  coming  through  to  management.  Our  Value  based  external 
recruitment practices for more senior full-time roles ensure equality with selection criteria, but fewer 
females have applied for roles compared to male applicants. 

The bonus payments are received for those achieving performance-based criteria and will, in the main, 
apply to the those working in the management and Head Chef roles. The bonus schemes are KPI led 
and paid to the role that has achieved. At the time of reporting more males were in those roles that 
were applicable for a bonus payment. 
Supporting the Gender Pay Gap 
In looking to the future, we will continue to recruit against our Values ensuring the best talent is 
attracted to the business regardless of gender. Oakman Inns & Restaurants is further committed to 
ensuring the Pub Industry is attractive for those with caring responsibilities and will continue to offer 
a flexible approach to working practices including for those returning from Maternity or Parental 
Leave. 

The Talent Pipeline for our future growth will continue to be monitored with talented individuals given 
opportunities  to  develop  to  more  senior  roles.  The  current  pipeline  statistics  show  that  those  in 
Assistant Manager roles are 50% male and 50% female with the Trainee Assistant Managers being 
analysed as 56% female.  

As Oakman has a clear strategy to develop from within this will impact in the future re gender balance. 

Oakman Inns has further committed to reviewing the balance of Head Chef applicants and internal 
progression routes to ambassador this profession amongst female chefs. 
Declaration 
 
Signed by:  CEO Peter Borg-Nea 

