p   

a

y   g

a

7

1

0

r  p
e
d
o rti n

g

p ril  2

5   A

6   –   0

1

0

p ril  2

G

e
r e

n
p

6   A

0

Gender pay gap reporting 

Gender pay gap reporting 

Statutory declaration
I confirm that the data and information presented in this report are accurate and meet the requirements of the  
UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Simon Beresford-Wylie  
Chief Executive Officer

Introduction

Arqiva is committed to being a great place to work, where our people can be the 
best that they can be. We are a values led organisation that believes that colleague 
engagement is not only important in creating a vibrant and positive environment, 
but also central to our commercial success. Having a team that embodies the values 
of straightforward, collaborative and ingenious enables us to deliver customer service 
excellence. Creating a diverse and inclusive culture is central to this. 

This report shares our gender pay data together with the approach that we are taking  
to developing diversity and inclusion at Arqiva.

Equal pay and the gender pay gap
It’s important to remember that equal pay and the 
gender pay gap are different. 

Equal pay means paying a man and a woman the 
same for broadly similar work; this has been a legal 
requirement since the 1970s. We are confident that men 
and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs  
across our business.

The gender pay gap is the difference in hourly pay 
between men and women when it is calculated as an 
average across the whole workforce. A wide range of 
factors will influence the gender pay gap, for example, as  
senior roles tend to pay more than junior roles, the fewer 
the number of senior women in senior positions the wider  
the gap is likely to be. Equally, if your workforce and the 
nature of the work is dominated by one sex over another,  
this will also be a factor.

Contact information

TheRewardTeam@arqiva.com

For press and media enquiries please contact the press office 
Press.Office@arqiva.com

Call: +44 (0)7773 045480 or +44 (0)7583 017130

01

02

Understanding the numbers

Gender pay gap reporting 

Our mean gender pay gap is 17.3%. This is 
largely a reflection of two things.  
Firstly, our entire industry faces a challenge to recruit 
women into science, technology, engineering and 
maths (STEM) roles. WES1 indicate that only 15.1%  
of engineering undergraduates in 2017 are female, 
with this figure staying relatively static since 2012.  
This means that the industry, and the pipeline for 
future talent remains dominated by men. 

Secondly, we have 3.5 times more men in our senior 
roles than women. ‘Senior’ is defined as grades D, E 
and F2.

Starting from the top 
Our senior leadership team – those that report 
straight into a Management Board Director – 
is already moving in the right direction. Just 
before the 2017 snapshot data was taken, 24% 
of this group was female, by the time we report 
in 2018, we fully expect to be exceeding this.

Gender pay gap reporting 

Our figures

Gender pay and bonus gap 
The table shows our overall mean and median gender pay data as a snapshot on 05 April 2017.

Gender pay gap

Mean
17.3%

Gender bonus gap

Median
23.6%

Mean
32.9%

Median
27.2%

Proportion of colleagues receiving a bonus 
These charts illustrate the difference between the number of men and women being paid a bonus for their  
performance in 2016.

Men

Women

96%

93.5%

Pay quartiles 
The information below illustrates the gender distribution at Arqiva across four equally sized quartiles, each containing  
just over 400 people. The percentages show the mean gender pay gap for each quartile.

Upper

Upper Middle

Lower Middle

Lower

5.5%

0.19%

2.53%

1.93%

Men 

Women

03

1‘Statistics on Women in Engineering 2018’ report. Available from www.wes.org.uk
2As categorised by the Willis Towers Watson Global Grading System.

04

Gender pay gap reporting 

Our actions

We still have a long way to go if we are going to build the most diverse workforce 
possible and reduce our gender pay gap.
Arqiva is an organisation with a proud history of engineering excellence. We have a long-standing, skilled workforce, and, like 
many other science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) companies, these roles are generally filled by men.  
This isn’t an excuse, it is where our business has come from, and it simply means we must work harder, and be even more 
committed to redressing the balance. 

Like the principles set out by WISE3 in their ‘Ten Steps’ campaign, we believe that understanding the issues we face as an 
organisation and being clear about the actions we will take and the ways in which we will measure success lie at the heart of 
driving positive change. 

We are committed to seeing a year on year improvement, not only in our gender pay gap, but also in the number of women 
we have at senior leadership level. We will also be continuing our approach to identifying and developing future female talent.  
In the rest of this report you will find some of the actions that we believe will help us to achieve this.

At grass roots
Attracting new talent into careers that are founded 
on STEM subjects is both a nationwide and industry 
challenge. We have 15 STEM Ambassadors across 
the business who deliver awareness activities to 
schools, teachers and parents. Making these activities 
interesting and engaging for girls remains a key 
element of that engagement.

Active role models 
We work hard to share strong female role 
models with future generations. We take our 
female apprentices and graduate engineers into 
schools and to careers events so that they can 
share their experiences. We have also had our 
female apprentice engineers profiled in national 
press and on regional radio as part of the 
Brathay Challenge4

Attracting and developing new talent
Arqiva works hard to attract and develop the talent of the future. For the last three years we have run a summer intern 
programme that has grown year on year. We also have active apprentice and graduate schemes. While the intake continues 
to be dominated by men, since 2014, 16% of our new graduates have been female. Our commitment is to continue to equal, 
or do better than the national number of female engineering graduates year on year.

Our actions

Gender pay gap reporting 

Transparent career progression
We don’t believe in positive gender discrimination, 
in fact, many of the women in our organisation say 
they simply want to be recognised equally for their 
skills and capability.  However we do believe that 
career progression, and the support needed to achieve 
potential should be equally available to all. To make 
this happen, we are committed to transparency. In 
the last 18 months we have introduced a job map, 
career framework and role profiles so that everyone 
can work with their leader in a consistent way, and that 
progression opportunities are visible to all.

Making positive changes  
when we can 
In early 2017 our IT and Networks team  
went through a significant reorganisation.  
Its leadership team is now a great example  
for our business; 50% of the team are women, 
with 60% of the female appointments being 
internal promotions.

Coaching and mentoring 
Different people have different needs and skills requirements. In the next 12 months Arqiva will be developing its approach 
to mentoring so that we are better supporting those with leadership potential. The very nature of mentoring means that a 
more personalised approach will become available to nurture talent and maximise professional development. And, we will be 
making sure that our senior female leaders play an active role in supporting this talent; the men and women of our future.

Flexible working 
Not everyone wants to work a traditional working 
pattern. Being able to work flexibly should not be seen 
as a barrier to progression. Our people tell us that 
having the flexibility to balance both their professional 
and personal lives is not only important to them, but it 
also builds engagement.

Smashing targets in  
ways that work
Like many organisations, sales targets are a key 
performance metric. In our Satellite & Media 
Business Unit not only was our greatest personal 
sales performance delivered by a woman during 
this snapshot year, but she also works part-time. 
A clear demonstration that flexibility can drive 
both engagement and performance.

Tackling unconscious bias 
Unconscious bias is common in all organisations, and Arqiva is no exception to this. We recognise that subconscious 
behaviours can influence how men and women are perceived and treated in a working environment. We are already working 
with the Employers Network for Equality and Inclusion (ENEI) on our diversity and inclusion approach and this will include 
how we both measure and then address unconscious bias.

3Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) enables and energises people in business, industry and education to increase the participation, contribution and 
success of women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).

4The Brathay Apprentice Challenge is the search for the apprentice team of the year, supported by the National Apprenticeship Service www.brathay.com

05

06

Arqiva.com

