Gender Pay Gap Reporting 2017 

New College, Oxford 

 

 

 

 
New College, Oxford employs over 250 people and is thus required to publish 
its gender pay gap statistics under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017. New College is committed to gender equality 
in the workplace. We are confident that men and women are paid the same 
for doing the same job at New College. However, men and women are often 
employed in different roles across our organisation creating a gender pay gap. 
We  are  actively  exploring  steps  to  reduce  the  lack  of  female  representation 
across roles of different seniority and encourage a diverse applicant mix for 
new job openings.  
 
Headline Gender Pay Gap Statistics 
 
The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean or median 
hourly  rate  of  pay  that  male  and  female  employees  receive.  The  mean  pay 
gap is the difference between average hourly earnings of men and women.  
The median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of 
hourly earnings of men and women. The mean and median hourly wage gaps 
at New College are 12.6% and 24.3% respectively.   
 
The  gender  gap  in  bonuses  is  calculated  as  the  difference  between  the 
average annual bonus payments between male and female employees who 
were paid a bonus. The mean and median bonus gaps for New College are 
39% and 50% respectively.   
 

Gender Pay Statistics 2017 

Mean Pay Gap 

Median Pay Gap 

24.27% 
50.00% 

 

Proportion of Women 

Proportion of Men 

12.57% 
39.02% 

62.96% 
40.00% 
46.25% 
39.51% 

 
Hourly Wage 
Bonus 
 
Pay Quartile 
Lowest Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Top Quartile 
 
 
Why does New College Have a Gender Pay Gap? 
 
The  main  reason  for  our  gender  pay  gap  is  the  difference  in  roles  in  which 
men and women are employed across our organisation. Once we account for 
differences in the department that male and female employees are employed 
in (e.g. domestic, maintenance, kitchen), our mean gender wage gap falls to 
5%. Specifically, a large proportion of women (28%) in College are employed 
in the Domestic department (17.6% of the College's workforce), which has the 
lowest hourly pay rate. The gender difference in bonuses lies in the fact that 

37.04% 
60.00% 
53.75% 
60.49% 

many  low-value  bonuses  are  paid  to  women  employed  in  the  Domestic 
department, whereas a smaller number of higher value bonuses are paid in 
the Lodge and Kitchen departments, which have a much higher proportion of 
male colleagues.  
 
Women  are  also  less  likely  to  take  on  the  highest  earning  roles  within  a 
department. In two thirds of departments with more than five employees, men 
earn the highest hourly wage of all employees in the division. We interpret this 
as a relative lack of female representation amongst senior roles. If you would 
like  to  discuss  the  anonymised  data  underlying  these  conclusions,  please 
email abi.adams@new.ox.ac.uk.  
 
How is New College Addressing the Gender Pay Gap? 
 
New  College  aims  to  provide  an  inclusive  environment  that  embodies  its 
commitment to equality and diversity.  
 
The  Equality  and  Diversity  Committee  at  New  College  has  increased  the 
number  of  times  it  meets  per  year  from  one  to  three  in  order  to  develop  a 
strategy  for  improving  female  representation  at  different  levels  of  the 
organisation. The recently created role of Equality Officer will oversee and will 
take responsibility for generating key policies to make progress on this issue. 
 
A key area that we hope to make progress in is the recruitment of women into 
senior administrative roles and into traditionally “male” departments (e.g. IT).  
Members  of  appointment  panels  will  be  expected  to  undergo  unconscious 
bias training and we will take active steps to ensure a diverse applicant pool.  
 

