G E N D E R   PAY   G A P

Under new legislation, all UK employers with more than 250 
employees are required to publish their gender pay gap.
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earning of all men and women 
in an organisation. This is different to equal pay, which is the requirement for people 
carrying out the same or similar work to be paid equally, regardless of gender.

Equal pay at Moore Blatch

Moore Blatch analysis of its gender pay across the 
business showed that there was broad parity across all 
job roles. 

     Table 1: Gender based differences across the firm

Job Title
Paralegal

Solicitor

Senior Solicitor (+ 5yrs PQE)

Associate
Salaried Partner

Mean
-3.39%*

-3.97%*

10.75%

-6.60%*
0.60%

      NB: In line with legislation, our study and conclusions exclude            
      equity partners.
     *A negative percentage indicates the average pay for women is    
       higher than men.

The gender pay gap

Moore Blatch has a gender pay gap of 27.3%. Our pay 
gap sits slightly above the legal sector average which as 
at October 2017 was 26%.

Moore Blatch has a female biased workforce (73% 
women, 27% men).

The gender imbalance within our firm, which is most 
evident in the lower pay bands (78% of secretarial 
and business support roles are held by women) results 
in an overall gender pay gap, despite parity of pay 
across job roles. In this, we reflect the legal industry as 
a whole. 

However, we acknowledge our gender pay gap 
needs addressing and we need to better understand 
the factors that influence this, taking action where 
appropriate.

At Moore Blatch, we have always recruited on ability 
and are committed to equality, fairness and diversity 
and believe that this leads to a more rewarding and 
successful workplace. We are therefore committed 
to reducing this gender pay gap by working to ensure 
the split between male and female employees within 
each group of employees more accurately reflects 
the gender split across the organisation as a whole.

Strengthening our policies and processes for 
recruitment, promotion, pay and bonus will contribute 
towards the necessary improvements. And, as female 
employees progress through the firm we fully expect 
the percentage of women at more senior levels 
to increase, thereby reducing the gender pay gap.

     Table 2: Moore Blatch Pay Gap

Mean**

Median***

Mean Bonus

Median Bonus

27.3%

39.6%

73.75%

88.30%

**Mean is the average where you add up all the numbers in a data set and 
then divide this by the total number of numbers.

***Median is when you list a set of numbers in order of lowest to highest and 
take the middle number to achieve the ‘median’ average.

www.mooreblatch.com

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P

As a firm, we are acutely aware that the bonus gap 
is significantly larger than the pay gap. We are already 
taking steps to address this, as outlined at the end of 
this document.

The bonus gap can, in part, be explained by the fact 
that historically there has not been enough structure 
applied to the payment of bonuses which has led 
to an inconsistent approach.

69% of bonuses were paid to women, which reflects 
the overall ratio of women to men within the firm. 
However, the data showed that the bonus amounts 
paid to women tended to be lower. As stated 
previously, this can largely be explained by the fact that 
78% of business support and secretarial roles are held 
by women. As we seek to address the gender split 
across the organisation as a whole, we expect the 
bonus gap to lessen.

Action plan to reduce gender pay gap

We have already put in place and are currently working 
on the following initiatives with the aim of reducing the 
pay gap:

1.  Introduce structured pay brackets

  We will introduce structured pay brackets for  
 
 

roles so there is clarity when making decisions for  
new recruits or promotions.

2.  Equal pay audit

  We will undertake a comprehensive equal pay audit
 
 
 
 

to check for gender bias. Whilst this is separate 
to gender pay gap, it will be beneficial to have 
a more in-depth understanding of any gender bias
across the firm.

Gender split by quartile

3.  We are reviewing our bonus policy

The regulations require employers to report on the 
proportion of males and females in each of the four 
pay quartiles. Quartile 1 representing the lowest salaries 
and quartile 4 the highest. The hourly rate of pay was 
used to determine the pay quartiles.

The table highlights an overall imbalance between male 
and female employees. However, the higher proportion 
of female staff in lower pay quartiles significantly 
reduces the average pay for women as a whole.

Diagram 1: Gender split by quartile 

Female

Male

  We will be introducing a structured bonus scheme  
  which will apply to all staff and partners, including 
 
 
 
 

non-fee earners. Applying a more consistent  
policy across the firm will create a fair and      
consistent approach to bonus payments, 
regardless of gender.

4.  Greater focus and drive on diversity

  We believe that we already have good policies 
for diversity but will revisit our approach to ensure 
 
that they are consistent across the firm; including  
 
  within recruitment activities, talent management 
 

and learning and development.

12.9%
87.1%

14.3%
85.7%

37.1%
62.9%

45.1%
54.9%

Quartile 1

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Quartile 4

www.mooreblatch.com

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P

Action plan to reduce gender pay gap

5.  Transition to flexible working

8.  Linking appraisals to pay

  We will be introducing performance ratings to the  
appraisal process which links to pay review. We will 
 
also review the distribution of performance ratings  
 
 
between men and women.

  We are confident that these initiatives and further  
discussions and improvements across the firm will  
 
 
enable Moore Blatch to reduce the current pay gap.

Ed Whittington   
Managing Partner

  We are committed to adopting a more flexible  
  working culture to include working from home,  
 
 
 
 
 

compressed hours and more flexibility on 
part-time hours. Further work is required to  
remove the barriers to flexible working for support 
staff in particular, and to educate the firm on ways  
in which it can be a success.

6.  Introducing a structured scoring and testing          

for recruitment

  We will be introducing a structured scoring system 
and skills-based testing for recruitment activities.  
 
This will help to remove the risk of bias from the  
 
 
recruitment process and therefore ensure the  
outcome is based on candidate’s ability to do the  
 
job.
 
 
 
  We are already seeing a higher percentage of  
 
training contract applications from females than  
  males. Assuming this continues throughout the  
 
 

employee life-cycle, there will naturally be more  
females at the senior levels of law firms.

7.  Focus on talent pipeline
  We will introduce a new talent pipeline and   
put in place mechanisms to ensure there are  
 
equal opportunities for all to develop and  
 
 
 
progress.

www.mooreblatch.com
www.mooreblatch.com

The information in this leaflet is correct as at April 2018. Moore Blatch LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.

