 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

  
Truro and Penwith Academy Trust as an employer are required by law to carry out Gender 
Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  
 
This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average 
earnings of men and women in our organisation. We are required to publish the results on 
our own website and a government website. We will do this within one calendar year of April 
5th 2017.  
 
We can use these results to assess:  

the levels of gender equality in our workplace  
the balance of male and female employees at different levels  

 
 
  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded.  

 
The results for the statutory calculations are:  
 

Pay quartiles by gender 

Mean Gender Pay Gap: 27.3% 

Median Gender Pay Gap: 43.5% 

Band 

Males  Females  Description 

11% 

88.9% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile 

24.3%  75.7% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the median 

34.8%  65.2% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper quartile 

0% 

100% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the upper quartile 

A 

Lower 
Pay 

B 

Lower 
Middle 

C 

Middle 
Pay 

D 

Upper 
Pay 

 

 

Notes. 1. The, mean or median, average salaries were calculated using an hourly rate of 
pay, which is calculated with a pay factor. This pay factor will reduce the actual salary 

 

compared to that of a Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) contract by the number of weeks paid 
(including holiday entitlement) per year and the number of hours worked per week compared 
to FTE.  

No bonus payments were awarded in the snapshot period, as such there is no data to 
report for these categories. 

Appendix 1 

 

Supporting Statement and Narrative  

Truro and Penwith Academy Trust operates as an equal opportunities employer, and does 
not discriminate in any way (as defined by the Equalities Act 2010 and other relevant 
legislation), regarding recruitment, performance management and employee career 
development opportunities.  

All employees are given equal treatment, regardless of gender, in terms and conditions of 
their employment contract if they are employed to do:- 

‘like work’ – work that is the same or broadly similar 

 
  Work found to be of equal value in terms of effort, skill or decision making 

The trust recruits to oppose gender specific roles and has employees in roles that are 
nationally considered gender biased. 

The majority of roles in the trust are part-time, either aligning closely with the hours of 
attendance of pupils or for part of that time. This not only includes the number hours per 
week but also the number of weeks worked each year. Whilst this will impact on the average 
salaries, it is a factor that influences the decision of applicants and the continuation of 
employment from staff.  

The Board of Trustees reviewed this data and will consider regularly the progress made on 
reducing the gender pay gap.  

 

 

 

Dr Jennifer Blunden 

Chief Executive 

Truro and Penwith Academy Trust 

 

