Clarke Willmott 2017 
gender pay gap report

At Clarke Willmott we have long been committed to building a diverse 
business and to building a culture which values all people from all sections  
of society.
We have welcomed the opportunity to analyse our pay gap and the assistance this gives us in shaping our existing 
initiatives to further develop the diversity of our firm.

Our pay and bonus gap: 
difference between men and women

Men and women receiving bonuses

N
E
M

N
E
M
O
W

Hourly pay

Bonus paid

Mean

21%

14%

34%

This information shows (1) our mean and median pay gap based on 
hourly rates of pay and (2) the mean and median difference in the 
bonuses paid to men and women.

Median

22% 27%
17%

Clarke Willmott employee numbers and pay gap by quartile

Top Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile

26%

17%

22%

40%

60%

74%

83%

78%

Gap 6.9%

Gap 5.7%

Gap -2.4%

Gap 0.4%

clarkewillmott.com

Great service... Great people...

Interpreting our results
The gender pay gap measures the difference between 
men’s and women’s average (mean) pay. The median 
(middle value) is also a useful measure as it is not affected 
by extreme values within the data. The gender pay gap 
is different to equal pay, which is a legal obligation to give 
men and women equal pay for work of equal value.

We are a significantly female firm with women representing 
74% of the relevant employees as at the reporting date. 
The effect of this, the high proportion of women within 
non-legal teams and within the administrative and 
secretarial roles of the legal teams, influences both the 
overall mean and the median hourly pay gap and bonus 
pay gap. This is further exacerbated within the proportion 
of each sex receiving a bonus, as bonuses are more often 
paid to those with legal job titles within legal teams.

Whilst women represent 60% of the upper quartile of 
hourly pay, they represent a significantly higher proportion 
of the other three quartiles. The gender pay gaps within 
each of our quartiles are significantly lower than our overall 
figures being (from lower to upper quartile) 0.4%, -2.4%, 
5.7% and 6.9%.

We have undertaken further analyses on a role by role 
basis in order to assist in our level of understanding 
together with an analysis to separate the non-legal and 
legal teams and an analysis within the legal teams of the 
proportions of qualified employees. Within each of our 
non-Partner qualified employee job titles, women represent 
at least 50%. Again, the gender pay gaps are lower 
than the overall figures being 2.75% at Solicitor, 13% at 
Associate and -10.4% at Senior Associate. Within some 
of these job titles, individual anomalies (in the Associate 
category in particular) affect the overall percentages.

We have undertaken various analyses at Partner level. 
We have three designations of Partners being Salaried 
Partners (who are included in the overall analyses because 
they are employees) and Ordinary and Equity Members 
(who we are required to omit as they are self-employed 
and share profit). Notwithstanding the requirement to 
omit them, we believe that it is an important aspect of 
this exercise to go beyond our reporting requirements. 
A commitment to transparency and change needs to 
go to the very top of any organisation. Analyses of the 
distribution of profit cannot be undertaken in the same 

way as hourly pay and as a result, we have undertaken 
the nearest approximate analysis within our remuneration 
structure being Ordinary Member Fixed Shares and Equity 
Member Tiers awarded at the last remuneration review 
prior to the reporting date.

An analysis of Salaried Partners establishes a proportion 
of 59% women and a gender pay gap of 10.2%. An 
analysis of Ordinary Members shows a proportion of 37% 
women and a gender pay gap of 0.1%. An analysis of 
Equity Members shows a proportion of 14% women and a 
gender pay gap of 4.5%.

As a result, at the relevant date, women represented 
37% of our Partners overall and 37% of our Ordinary 
Members but only 14% of our Equity Members. Change 
at these senior levels takes time and to an extent this will 
accelerate when Equity Members retire. We are committed 
to accelerating that change and expect to have achieved 
30% of the Equity Members within five years.

We are a signatory to The Law Society’s Diversity and 
Inclusion Charter and are committed to a range of 
initiatives that support diversity within our firm. We have 
a well-founded flexible working policy that enables our 
people to balance their working life with other priorities 
and have scored highly on this element on both internal 
and external surveys. We will be enhancing this offering by 
considering an agile working policy alongside this. During 
the past year, we have introduced a Family Care Forum, 
offering support to those planning for and returning from 
maternity or paternity leave and last year, we also offered 
our first returnship. This is in addition to hosting events 
in respect of Bristol Women in Business, International 
Women’s Day, Women in Property and similar initiatives.

We are committed to continuing and enhancing our 
diversity initiatives to develop an organisational culture 
which values people from all sections of society and the 
contribution which each individual can make.

Stephen Rosser
Chief Executive

T: 0345 209 1339 
E: stephen.rosser@clarkewillmott.com

Offices
Birmingham 

Bristol 

Cardiff 

London 

Manchester 

Southampton 

Taunton

clarkewillmott.com

clarkewillmott.com

Great service... Great people...
Great service... Great people...

Clarke Willmott LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registration number OC344818. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority 
(SRA number 510689), whose rules can be found at http://www.sra.org.uk/handbook/. Its registered office is 138 Edmund Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2ES. Any reference to a 
‘partner’ is to a member of Clarke Willmott LLP or an employee or consultant who is a lawyer with equivalent standing and qualifications and is not a reference to a partner in a partnership.

Clarke Willmott LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registration number OC344818. It is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA 
number 510689), whose rules can be found at http://www.sra.org.uk/handbook/. Its registered office is 138 Edmund Street, Birmingham, West Midlands, B3 2ES. Any reference to a ‘partner’ is 
to a member of Clarke Willmott LLP or an employee or consultant who is a lawyer with equivalent standing and qualifications and is not a reference to a partner in a partnership.

