CCS Media – Our Gender Pay Gap Report

As a leading technology and supplies reseller – we pride ourselves on our technical excellence and 
customer service. With a 500-strong workforce we recognise that our staff are our most important asset.  

Our commitment to equality 

We take pride in having a workplace which celebrates diversity. Our aim is that our people will be truly 
representative of the diverse customer base we enjoy and are rewarded fairly based on their skills, 
commitment, ability and the requirements of their role. That’s why we’ve set pay rates for each job role 
within the business and pay men and women equally, regardless of gender.   

Our responsibilities

As a company with more than 250 employees we have been asked by the Government to publish any 
pay difference experienced by men and women (it’s referred to as the ‘pay gap’). How that pay gap is 
calculated is set out by the Government who wanted every business to measure their pay on 5 April 
2017 (and at the same date every year after). The statistics below reflect our pay at that date. 

A snapshot  

On 5 April 2017 our: 
Mean pay difference between men and women
Median pay difference between men and women
Mean difference in bonuses paid to men and women
Median difference in bonuses paid to men and women

25.9%
20.8%
42.6%
47%

If you split pay across our organisation into four equal pay bands the following table shows the pay gaps 
(as a %) between men and women in each of the pay bands:

It’s important to say that these results don’t mean we pay employees differently for doing the same job 
but they do show that we operate in an industry where women appear to be under represented in senior 
management and higher paid roles (which attract higher salaries). This is evidenced by the fact that our 3rd 
and 4th quartiles contain more men than women. The main driving factor of our gender pay gap is that 
our highly paid roles (within senior management and our technical roles) are predominately filled by men.  

 HEADOFFICE:OldBirdholmeHouse,DerbyRoad,Chesterfield,Derbyshire,S402EX|TEL:01246200200|FAX:01246207048EMAIL:sales@ccsmedia.com|WEB:www.ccsmedia.com  RegisteredNumber:1693516England   VATNumber:385123454 As we’ve highlighted above, all our roles are paid the same rates of pay – regardless of gender. We 
also offer the same salary structures to our admin roles and, for our sales based roles; we offer the 
same great commission packages to both male and female employees alike. This means that our 
employees are able to directly influence their pay based on their own hard work and skills. 
 

Exploring our results - why might pay be different depending on gender? 

Here are some of the reasons we believe there is a difference in pay.

•  We have more men than women in senior, technical and leadership roles meaning they are 

generally paid a higher average salary.

•  We regularly recruit and encourage diversity amongst our workforce. However, we acknowledge 

our results show that we can do more to address our pay gap and we’re committed to doing 
this.  Along with other businesses operating within our sector – we recognise that we need to 
encourage more women into senior roles within our industry. 

•  Technical and management roles tend to have less flexible working patterns than our other roles, 

which may make them less attractive to women (who are still recognised as taking the primary 
childcare role). 
 

Positive changes 

•  We will look at our existing flexible working arrangements and our technology to see if there are 

any other ways we can support flexible working, or working from home. We’ve already begun 
upgrading our old IT infrastructure so that we’re better able to embrace flexible working and 
working from home to support our female employees to remain in employment.

•  We know that it can be difficult to return to work after an extended period of leave to care for a 
new baby or adopted child. We’re going to provide coaching for women returning from leave to 
support them with the transition back to work but also to give them confidence to commit to an 
ambitious career path if that’s what they want.

•  We believe that if more men took up the right to shared parental leave that would allow women 
to be more flexible with their return to work. We will encourage everyone to make use of shared 
parental leave.

As a director of the company, I, Alan Honarmand, can confirm that the information contained within 
this report is accurate and relates to CCS Media Limited.

Signed by Alan Honarmand
For and on behalf of CCS Media Limited 
Dated: 04/04/2018

 HEADOFFICE:OldBirdholmeHouse,DerbyRoad,Chesterfield,Derbyshire,S402EX|TEL:01246200200|FAX:01246207048EMAIL:sales@ccsmedia.com|WEB:www.ccsmedia.com  RegisteredNumber:1693516England   VATNumber:385123454 