GENDER PAY GAP STATEMENT  
 
Introduction 
 
As Aeromet employs more than 250 employees we are required to comply with Government 
regulations on gender pay gap reporting by publishing the details of our gender pay gap. 
 
The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay.  Equal pay ensures that men and women receive 
the same pay for carrying out the same or equivalent work.  The gender pay gap is a simple average 
figure for all employees within the organisation irrespective of the work that they do. 
 
The figures in this statement have been reached using the mechanisms that are set out in the 
Government’s gender pay gap reporting legislation.  The snapshot date is 5th April 2017. 
 
 
The Results 
 
The difference in mean pay of full pay men and women 
 
23.4% 
 
The difference in median pay of full pay men and women 
 
11.8% 
 
The difference in mean bonus pay of men and women 
 
193.2% higher for women 
 
The difference in median bonus pay of men and women 
 
10% higher for women 
 
The proportion of men and women who receive bonus pay 
 
Male 
Female 
43.8%                                 34.6% 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Male 
93.4% 
90.2% 
90.2% 
85.5% 

Female 
6.6% 
9.8% 
9.8% 
14.5% 

 
 
Employees by pay quartile 
 
 
 
Upper quartile   
Upper middle quartile 
Lower middle quartile 
Lower quartile   
 
 
Understanding our pay gap 
 
The average gender pay gap in the UK in 2016 was reported at 18.1% and ours at 23.4% is high but 
the underlying reason for our gender pay gap is the unequal distribution of men and women across 
the company, not because of our pay policies or practices.   
 
Aeromet operates in the manufacturing and engineering sector which is a traditionally male 
dominated industry.  There are few women in senior leadership positions and few women in 
technical positions that attract a higher level of pay.  Our gender pay gap reflects a wider societal 
norm, in the UK of all graduates in Aerospace engineering there are just 15.2% who are women.   
 
Our bonus payments show a higher payment for women as individual performance bonus resulted in 
higher payments than the general attendance bonus attained by the majority of workers, the greater 
percentage being male. 
 
Aeromet is committed to closing the gender pay gap by recruiting more women into our company.   
We have in the last twelve months been actively  employing female apprentices across our sites and 
are ensuring that those females already employed are given the opportunity for advancement so 
benefitting our talent pool. 
 
I confirm that the gender pay gap data is this report is accurate. 
 
 
 
 
 
Simon Holliday 
Managing Director 

