GENDER PAY 
GAP REPORT

We’re a travel company, getting people on the road in 160 countries all around the world. We’ve succeeded 
because we cater to everyone, whatever their gender, nationality, language or culture.

There’s no way we’d be where we are today if we 
hadn’t consistently reached out to every kind of 
person imaginable. 

It’s no coincidence that our colleagues hail from 65 
different countries.

But we’re not just a travel company. We’re also 
a tech company – and like tech companies 
everywhere, we’ve got some distance to go when 
it comes to equal gender representation. On 17 
April 2017, women made up 36.1% of our workforce. 
We’re aiming for a 50:50 split at all levels.

That’s a goal that no tech company can reach on its 
own. It’ll take a lot of persistence and a major shift 
in attitudes: not just in the sector, but throughout 
society as a whole.

So I welcome government initiatives like this, 
which promote transparency about issues of 
equality. They’re helping us all along the road to a 
society where everyone can enjoy equal pay and 
opportunities for advancement.

Ian Brown
Chief Executive Officer, Rentalcars.com

Pay at Rentalcars.com

An organisation’s gender pay gap is the difference between the average salaries of its male staff and its 
female staff, regardless of role and responsibility.

The mean gender pay gap

The median gender pay gap

We added up the salaries of all women in our company and 
divided by the number of women.

We took the salary of the ‘average’ woman in our company 
(halfway between the lowest-paid woman and the highest-paid).

We did the same with the men’s salaries.

We did the same with the ‘average’ man.

The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the two 
results.

The median gender pay gap is the difference between the two 
results.

Pay quartiles

Each quartile represents 25% of our colleagues: 286 people. So, for example, the ‘lower quartile’ image shows the male:female split 
among the 286 staff with the lowest salaries.

Bonuses

The mean gender bonus gap

The median gender bonus gap

The bonus gap is greater than the pay gap because our higher-earning employees are 
more likely to receive a bonus. They’re also more likely to be male.

The reality today

Our gender pay gap comes from the fact that we 
can’t recruit enough women for many of the jobs 
we need to get done. 

All too often, ‘tech’ is still seen as a male dominated 
industry:
•  At school, there aren’t enough women getting 

• 

• 

into STEM subjects: Science, Technology, 
Engineering and Mathematics.
This means there aren’t enough women 
studying those subjects at university.
This means there’s a shortage of female 
applicants for many of our higher-paid 
positions.

• 

Throughout the UK tech sector, the gender pay 
gap is 25%.

On our own, we can’t change that reality. What 
we can do is inspire the next generation of tech 
superstars – and that’s what we are doing. We’re 
doing our bit to create a culture where gender 
plays no part in career choices. 

It’s the only way forward. When talented people 
live up to their full potential, their accomplishments 
make for a more prosperous, more successful 
society. Quite simply, everyone wins.

Changing the world we work in 

Diversity isn’t something we’ve ‘added on’ as we’ve 
grown to become the world’s leading online car 
rental service. It’s been one of our key drivers since 
we were founded in 2004. 

In 2017, we commissioned Mercer, one of the 
world’s leading HR consultants, to carry out 
an independent audit on gender pay within  
Rentalcars.com. Controlling for factors such as job 
level, experience and performance, they concluded 
that we have no systemic pay bias. We’ll bring them 
in again for another audit next year.

•  UX Designer Lizzie Kelly-Dyson (co-founder of 
Ladies that UX) has been called one of the six 
most influential women in UX today. 

•  We were proud to sponsor Anna Sass and Lily 

Hudson in the International RoboCup 2017 
finals.

Today, within Rentalcars.com, we’re:
•  Running mentoring programmes for women.
•  Arranging flexible working hours for employees 

with families.
Encouraging couples to share parental leave 
between them.

•  Championing female role models within the 

• 

• 

company to inspire women everywhere.
Providing ‘unconscious bias’ training to ensure 
our hiring and promotion processes are 
inclusive.

And we’re reaching out beyond the company:
•  Head of Engineering Maja Borota-Nedic 

appeared in Forbes magazine, talking about 
increasing female representation in tech.

I confirm that all figures are accurate as at 5 April 
2017.

Nicola Richiusa
Head of Pay & Benefits

