Corporate Leadership Team 

5 December 2017 
 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

Final Decision-Maker 

Corporate Leadership Team 

Lead Head of Service 

Dena Smart, Head of HR Shared Service 

Lead Officer and Report Author  Dena Smart, Head of HR Shared Service 

Classification 

Wards affected 

 

Public 

None 

 

 

This report makes the following recommendations to the final decision-maker: 
1. 

That the Gender Pay Gap information is noted and agreed for publication on the 
government portal. 
 
That this report and the analysis is published with the Gender Pay Gap figures on 
the Maidstone website.  

2. 

 

 

 

 

This report relates to the following corporate priorities: (please explain how your 
report relates to either or both of these, delete as appropriate) 

  Keeping Maidstone Borough an attractive place for all 
  Securing a successful economy for Maidstone Borough 
 

 

Timetable 

Meeting 

Date 

Corporate Leadership Team 

05 December 2017 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

 
1.  PURPOSE OF REPORT AND EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 
1.1  From  April  2017  under  the  Equality  Act  2010  (Specific  Duties  and  Public  Authorities) 
Regulations  2017  employers  with  250  or  more  employees  are  required  to  publish 
statutory gender pay gap calculations every year.  

 
1.2  The data must be a snapshot of salary data on 31 March 2017 and must be published 
on our own website and a government website by 30 March 2018. This report sets out 
the figures we will need to publish with an analysis of the information.  

 

 
 
 
2. 

INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 
 

2.1  The information that is required for publication is set out in the table below. 

Median  gender  pay 
gap 

Mean Bonus Gap 

Bonus proportions 

Mean gender pay gap  The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay 
of  male  full-pay  relevant  employees  and  that  of 
female full-pay relevant employees. 
The  difference  between  the  median  hourly  rate  of 
pay  of  male  full-pay  relevant  employees  and  that  of 
female full-pay relevant employees. 
The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to 
male  relevant  employees  and  that  paid  to  female 
relevant employees. 
The  difference  between  the  median  bonus  pay  paid 
to  male  relevant  employees  and  that  paid  to  female 
relevant employees. 
female  relevant 
The  proportions  of  male  and 
employees  who  were  paid  bonus  pay  during  the 
relevant period. 
The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant 
employees  in  the  lower,  lower  middle,  upper  middle 
and upper quartile pay bands. 

Median  gender  pay 
gap 

Quartile pay bands 

 

 
 

2.2  The figures have been determined from the Gender Pay Gap report produced by the 

payroll system. The highlighted figures are those that will require publication. 

 

 

Table 1 

 
Male 
Female 
Gender Pay Gap 

 
 

Mean Hourly rate 

Median Hourly rate 

12.79 
12.16 
4.93 

14.77 
13.98 
5.36 

 

Table 2 
 

Bonus Gender Pay 
Gap 
Male 
Female 
Gender Pay Gap 

 
Table 3 
 

  
Lower Q 
L Mid Q 
U Mid Q 
Upper Q 

 

2.3  Analysis of the data 

Mean Bonus rate 

Median Bonus rate 

110.93 
0.00 
100.00 

Males 
63.25 
29.31 
37.61 
62.07 

2792.28 
0.00 
100.00 

Females 
36.75 
70.69 
62.39 
37.93 

 
Table 1  The  key  reason  for  the  difference  in  the  median  and  mean  pay  rates  is  the 
structure  of  the  pay  scales  and  the  length  of  service  of  males  and  females.  The  pay 
scales  were  designed  in  2006  with  some  minor  amendments  in  2012,  they  were 
designed  to  minimise  equal  pay  issues  as  they  reduced  the  number  of  annual 
incremental  points.  The  current  pay  scales  have  between  two  and  four  incremental 
points  which  reflect  the  increased  level  of  skill  and  experience  gained  in  a  role  over 
time, ‘seasoning in the job’. There are also a number of high performance increments 
in the highest four grades which allow for the flexibility of senior roles to take on new 
responsibilities and add value to the organisation through income generation.   
 
The  impact  of  the  incremental  points  will  mean  that  those  with  less  than  three  years’ 
service will earn less in the role than those employed for more than three years in the 
role. Across the council only 39% of women are at the top of their grade whereas 69% 
of men have reached that point.  
 
Table 2  The council does not have provision for the payment of bonuses within its own 
terms  and  conditions.  The  bonuses  set  out  in  Table  2  reflect  a  small  group  of  8 
Workers  that  TUPE  transferred  in  February  2008  into  the  grounds  maintenance 
department. Of the original 31 staff that transferred many have moved onto Maidstone 
terms and conditions but these last few staff members have the legal right to remain on 
the original private sector terms that were in place at the time of the transfer.  
 
Table 3  The  gender  split  across  all  employees  is  52%  female  48%  male  and  this 
profile has been static for a number of years. The gender profile of the organisation is 
unusual in local government which is more traditionally 70% female 30% male. Table 3 
illustrates that the breakdown of males and females is not consistent in all areas of the 
pay grades; this is illustrated more clearly in the graph below. 
 

 

 

 
The  council  directly  employs  a  significant  number  of  manual  workers  in  its  Depot 
Operations  the  majority  of  which  are  male  whereas    grades  five  to  eight  are 
predominantly  clerical,  supervisory  or  semi-professional  and  there  are  a  majority  of 
females;  the  professional  and  managerial  roles  are  more  closely  balanced  with  a 
slightly higher number of females. 
 

2.4  Workforce Monitoring  

 
The  council’s  leadership  team  monitors  its  workforce  statistics  on  a  quarterly  basis 
which  includes  information  on  staff  turnover  and  exit  information,  recruitment, 
employee relations matters and the equalities profile. This regular monitoring ensures 
that trends can be identified and appropriate action taken if there are areas of concern. 

 
2.5  Pay Policies 

 
The council has a number of policies relating to pay that ensure transparency, fairness 
and equity. These include: 
 

  Job evaluation (HAY) for all roles; 
  A well-designed pay scale with no overlapping grades and a restricted number 

of incremental points; 

  Formal authorisation processes for the change in pay; 
  A clear policy at appointment which should be at the first point of grade 
  An equal pay approved Market Supplement Policy 
  Enhanced Shared Parental Pay to mirror Maternity Pay 
  Exit interviews to gain feedback on employment experiences. 

 
2.6  Action plan 

 

The council has a clear approach to pay and reward which is well controlled.  
 

  One  of  the  factors  that  can  influence  the  gender  pay  gap  is  the 
distribution  of  males  and  females  within  the  grades,  we  will  ensure  that 
recruitment  processes  are  monitored  for  all  equality  implications  at  the 
point of shortlisting and appointment to ensure that there is no indication 

 

of  bias.  This  data  is  analysed  annually  on  a  monitoring  basis  but  this 
does not enable a proactive approach if there is any need for challenge. 
 

  Consideration will be given to the options for the removal of bonuses and 
the move to Maidstone terms and conditions, however the harmonisation 
of  terms  is  illegal  under  TUPE  and  this  may  need  to  continue  to  be 
addressed on an incremental basis. 

 

 

 

3.  AVAILABLE OPTIONS 

 

3.1  That the required information is added to the government website with a link to 

this report which should be published on the Maidstone website. 

 
3.2  That the information contained within this report is presented specifically for the 

website and is not in contained within the format of an SMT report. 

 
 
 
4.  PREFERRED OPTION AND REASONS FOR RECOMMENDATIONS 

 

4.1  That the required information is added to the government website with a link to 
this  report  which  should  be published  on  the  Maidstone  website.  The  report  is 
clear  and  easy  to  understand  as  it  is  presented  and  the  development  of  a 
‘published ‘ version will take time from the communications team. 

 
 
5.  CONSULTATION RESULTS AND PREVIOUS COMMITTEE FEEDBACK 

 

5.1  Trade unions will be updated with the information contained within the report. 

 

 
 
6.  NEXT STEPS: COMMUNICATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 

DECISION 

 
6.1  The  next  steps  are  to  publish  the  information  on  the  website  and  the 
government portal. Members may be updated in January when the Employment 
Committee consider the pay policy statement. 

 
 
 
7.  CROSS-CUTTING ISSUES AND IMPLICATIONS 
 

Implications 

Sign-off 

on 

Corporate 

This is an over-arching report 
which impacts on all priorities 

Issue 

Impact 
Priorities 

Risk Management 

The major risk would be 
reputational if the council failed 
to meet the statutory 

 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

requirements. 
None identified at this time 

Finance 

Financial 

Staffing 

Legal 

Equality 
Assessment 

Impact 

Needs 

Environmental/Sustainable 
Development 

Employees need to have 
confidence in the values of the 
organisation and Equality is 
one of our values 

The Gender Pay Gap report is 
a statutory requirement as set 
out in the body of the report. 

The primary focus of the 
Gender Pay Gap report is to 
address inequalities in pay. 

None identified at this time 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Legal 

Policy 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Dena  Smart,  Head  of 
HR Shared Services 

Community Safety 

None identified at this time 

Human Rights Act 

None identified at this time 

Procurement 

None identified at this time 

Asset Management 

None identified at this time 

 
 
8.  REPORT APPENDICES 
 
The following documents are to be published with this report and form part of the 
report: 
 
None 

 

 

