                                                                                               Search      Please enter a search criteria.      Pay a Bill  Trade Unions  News/Blog  Helpful Items    RSS                     Simpson Millar LLP Solicitors   Privacy &
                        Cookies       Menu Our People Enquire     Home  Legal Services    Abuse Claims  Asbestos Disease/Illness  Conveyancing    Care Home Fees Recovery  Commercial  Community Care  Contested Wills & Probate  Court of Protection  Disease/Illness at Work  Driving Offences  Education Law  Elderly Legal Services  Employment Law  Family Law  Holiday Claims  Life Changing Injuries  Mediation  Medical Negligence  Personal Injury  Polish Legal Services  Professional Negligence  Road Accidents  Successful Cases  Wills and Probate    About Us   Accessibility  Accreditations  Charitable Giving  Complaints Policy  Contact Us  CSR Policy  Equal Opportunities Policy  Information Technology  Online Enquiry Form  Publication Subscriptions  Recruitment  Site Map  Terms of Use    Contact Us   Offices:  Bristol  Cardiff  Kingston-Upon-Thames  Lancaster  Leeds - Head Office   London  Manchester  Wimbledon    Our People  Pricing Options       Enquire » Enquire »    New Clients: 0800 260 5010    Existing Clients: 0345 357 9000    Agent Line: 0800 206 1523     Contact: 07974 257 071           Enquiry Form Contact Us Today    New Clients: 0800 260 5010  Existing Clients: 0345 357 9000  Agent Line: 0800 206 1523    Contact: 07974 257 071                       Home      Simpson Millar LLP      Equal opportunities policy        Equal opportunities policy     Our statement  a. General Statement   Simpson Millar LLP is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment,
        in the provision of services to clients and in the use of external services. This
        means that our clients, suppliers, all job applicants and employees will receive
        equal treatment regardless of sex (including gender reassignment), sexual orientation,
        race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, disability, marital status, caring or
        parental responsibilities, age, or beliefs on matters such as religion and politics.  Selection criteria and processes will not discriminate unjustifiably on grounds
        of sex, sexual orientation, marital status, race, ethnic or national origins, colour,
        religion or beliefs, disability or age.  Job advertisements will contain a brief statement that Simpson Millar LLP is an
        equal opportunities employer.  Where appropriate, staff responsible for recruitment will receive training in equal
        opportunities.  The firm is committed to provide an environment in which the rights and dignity
        of all its employees are respected, and which is free from discrimination, prejudice,
        intimidation and all forms of harassment including bullying.  b. Our commitment:   To create an environment in which individual differences and the contributions of
            all our staff are recognised and valued.  Every employee is entitled to a working environment that promotes dignity and respect
            to all. No form of intimidation, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.  Training, development and progression opportunities are available to all staff.  Job advertisements will contain a brief statement that Simpson Millar LLP is an
            equal opportunities employer.  We will regularly review our employment practices and procedures to ensure fairness.   c. Monitoring and Review  To ensure that this policy is operating effectively (and for no other purpose) the
        firm maintains records of employees’ and applicants’ racial origins, gender and
        disability.  Ongoing monitoring and regular analysis of such records provide the basis for appropriate
        action to eliminate unlawful direct and indirect discrimination and promote equality
        of opportunity.  d. Disciplinary and Grievance Procedures  Simpson Millar LLP will treat seriously any grievance raised as a result of discrimination
        or harassment on the grounds of race; racial group; colour; ethnic or national origins;
        sex; sexual orientation; marital status; religion or beliefs; disability or age
        by an employee and investigate the same thoroughly. Any employee who is found to
        be guilty of discrimination or harassment will be subject to action under the Firm’s
        Disciplinary Procedure.    Our Gender Pay Gap Report              Area of work   Accessibility  Accreditations  Charitable Giving  Complaints Policy  Equal Opportunities Policy  Feedback  Information Technology  Online Enquiry Form  Our Firm  Publication Subscriptions  Recruitment  Site Map   Meet the Team                          Get In Touch                Enquiry Type...  Abuse  Asbestos Illnesses  Care Homes Fees  Conveyancing  Education Law  Employment Law  Family, Divorce and Child Law  Financial Services  Holiday Illness/Accident Claims  Hearing Loss Claims  HR/Recruitment  Immigration  Landlord/Tenant Disputes  Legal Insurance  Medical Negligence  Motoring Offences  Personal Injury  Professional Negligence  Road Traffic Accidents  Serious Injuries  Trade Union  Wills, Probate and Trusts  Contested Wills, Probate  Work related Illness  Community Care  Court of Protection  Mediation  Other...   Need a conveyancing quote? Get one here .   Brief enquiry details     Please confirm that you have read and agree to our privacy policy          Request a Call Back                           Enquiry Type...  Abuse  Asbestos Illnesses  Care Homes Fees  Conveyancing  Education Law  Employment Law  Family, Divorce and Child Law  Financial Services  Holiday Illness/Accident Claims  Hearing Loss Claims  HR/Recruitment  Immigration  Landlord/Tenant Disputes  Legal Insurance  Medical Negligence  Motoring Offences  Personal Injury  Professional Negligence  Road Traffic Accidents  Serious Injuries  Trade Union  Wills, Probate and Trusts  Contested Wills, Probate  Work related Illness  Community Care  Court of Protection  Mediation  Other...   Need a conveyancing quote? Get one here .      Call me...  Morning  Afternoon  Evening      Please confirm that you have read and agree to our privacy policy                          Site Map  Complaints  Accessibility  Regulatory  Modern Slavery Act 2015  Subscriptions  Recruitment opportunities  RSS Feed    Panel Memberships, Accreditations & Quality Standards                              Disclaimer: No information on this website shall be construed as legal advice and information is offered for information purposes only. You should always seek advice from an appropriately qualified solicitor on any specific legal enquiry. **Call charges may vary. Calls from mobiles may vary depending on your service provider. Calls to or from our legal helpline may be recorded for training and monitoring purposes.   Calls to 0844 numbers will cost 7p per minute plus your telephone company's access charge.  External links are provided for your convenience, but they are beyond the control of Simpson Millar LLP Solicitors and no representation is made as to their content. Use or reliance on any external links and the content thereon provided is at your own risk. Full terms of use...      © Copyright Simpson Millar LLP 2018  - Simpson Millar LLP Solicitors is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales OC313936.   Our registered office is: 21-27 St Paul's Street , Leeds  LS1 2JG . VAT number 823 8367 14. A list of members is available from our registered office.  We use the term 'partner' to refer to an employee of equivalent standing to that of a partner in a partnership. Authorised and Regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority: Registration No: 424940.   Read our Copyright & Disclaimer                                  