Bouygues Energies & Services 
Gender Pay Gap Report

April 2017

Increasing diversity, a key to our future 
success 

I am proud of our talented and dedicated workforce here at Bouygues Energies 
&  Services  UK.  However,  like  many  companies  operating  in  the  energies  and 
services sector, we have far more men than women working in our business. 

Currently,  64%  of  our  workforce  is  male  and  we  have  significantly  more  men 
than women in higher paid senior roles. I am personally committed to changing 
this and improving the gender balance within the company.

Feedback  from  businesses  and  academic  research  suggests  that  firms  with 
diverse  workforces  and  executive  boards  perform  significantly  better  than 
those with little or no diversity, as this provides a more rigorous and challenging 
framework for critical decision making. 

The more diverse our workforce across all aspects of the business, the better 
we  will  be  able  to  understand  our  diverse  community  of  stakeholders  and 
effectively deliver our projects for both our clients and the end-users.

It is clear that a better gender balance and increased diversity at all levels of our 
business are key factors in our future success, and there is more that we can do 
to increase diversity in all its forms, including gender.

However, change, particularly meaningful change, takes time to effect. This is 
our first gender pay gap report and in addition to explaining our statistics, it 
shows some of the ways in which we are working to close the gender pay gap 
within our business.

Fabienne Viala, Bouygues Construction Country Director

I confirm that the gender pay gap data contained within this report is accurate 
and has been produced in accordance with legal requirements. 

Paul Cadman, Director of Human Resources Bouygues Energies & Services UK

What is the gender pay gap about?

The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average 
earnings between men and women.  

The gender pay gap is not a statement about Equal Pay.  Gender Pay is different 
to Equal Pay. Equal Pay is about paying the same for work of equal value and 
has been a legal requirement since 1970.

The gender pay gap reflects the composition of the workforce. So if, as you will 
see in this report, there is an unequal distribution of men and women across 
the  company  and,  particularly,  where  more  men  are  employed  in  senior  and 
leadership positions, this will be reflected in a gender pay gap, i.e. on average, 
men are paid more than women.

64.4%

35.6%

Proportion of men and women in Bouygues Energies & Services

So what is the gender pay gap in 
Bouygues Energies & Services?

The government requires organisations with 250 employees or more to publish 
their gender pay gap on the government website and in a prominent place on 
the  organisation’s  website.  For  Bouygues  Energies  &  Services  this  regulation 
applies to one company, known as Bouygues E&S FM UK Limited.

In line with government regulations, we are publishing our gender pay gap as it 
stood at 5th April 2017 (the “snapshot date”).

Hourly

Median

16.5%
Mean 25.4%

£

Bonus

Median

0.0%

Mean 42.0%

The regulations require the publishing of both median and mean gender pay 
gaps. The median represents the mid-point in a data set, in which half of the 
numbers are above this point and the other half below. The mean is different 
in that it represents the average of the data set, that is the aggregate of all the 
numbers divided by the amount of numbers in the set.  The median is generally 
regarded  as  the  more  appropriate  metric  because  it  is  less  affected  by  any 
distortions in pay or gender distribution.  

% of men and women receiving a bonus

15.3%

10.6%

Why is there a gender pay gap?

The  gender  pay  gap  in  Bouygues  Energies  &  Services  reflects  the  fact  that 
there are proportionately fewer women than men in senior and leadership roles, 
which  generally  attract  higher  pay.  The  sectors  in  which  we  operate,  such  as 
construction,  facilities  management,  energy  management  and  infrastructure, 
have traditionally been male-dominated industries. 

As  a  consequence  women  are  a  smaller  minority  overall  in  our  sectors.  The 
proportion of women in the company as a whole is 35.6%, but they currently 
represent 14.0% of the senior and leadership positions. There are many complex 
reasons for this and we go on to talk about how we are addressing those issues 
later in this report.

Another factor in the gap is that the pay amounts include various allowances 
beyond basic salaries and wages. Some of these allowances are in lieu of company 
cars and are most commonly found in senior positions. Other allowances apply 
to certain types of maintenance roles such as Appointed Persons, standby and 
call-out payments and, again, these are most often occupied by men. 

We are pleased to note that the median bonus pay gap is at zero, which suggests 
a basic fairness in our awarding of bonuses. Nevertheless, the mean bonus pay 
gap reflects the fact that larger bonuses are most often associated with senior 
and leadership positions in order to stay competitive  within the labour markets 
in which we operate.

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle 

Quartile

16%

84%

27%

73%

Lower Middle 

Quartile

Lower Quartile

36%

64%

61%

39%

Check out our YouTube video on Women in Engineering.

Gender Distribution Across Pay Quartiles

What are our plans to reduce the 
gender pay gap?

Our sectors are changing as more women become attracted to careers within 
them and we are playing our part in helping that change.

Our  2020  Diversity  Strategy  targets  a  number  of  initiatives  to  facilitate 
under-represented groups having a larger share of senior positions within our 
company.  This  also  applies  to  under-represented  groups  other  than  women, 
such as colleagues from ethnic minorities. With particular regard to women we 
are undertaking a number of initiatives to drive up the recruitment, development 
and promotion of female employees.

Recruitment and retention
We have recently introduced enhanced maternity pay to reinforce our retention 
strategies for working mothers. 

We have also widened our approaches to flexible working to give more family-
friendly support and to improve work-life balance. We are also tackling issues 
such as Unconscious Bias by undertaking comprehensive training for all hiring 
managers.

Inspiring the Future
We work regularly to encourage female school students and undergraduates to 
consider careers in our sectors. We have supported a number of events over the 
years with various organisations, such as Cardiff University, Lewisham Schools 
and others.

Networking
Our women’s network, known as WeLink, was founded in 2012 and has played a 
prominent, partnering role in helping devise our strategies. The network meets 
regularly to discuss topics of common interest and has provided much support 
to its membership and the Company.

Talent Development
We  are  particularly  keen  to  drive  our  talent  strategies  and  so  we  have  been 
working  hard  to  ensure  that  our  Early  Careers  programmes,  such  as  our 
graduate and apprenticeship schemes, have a balanced intake. Currently, our 
female intake has been at 31% over the last five years, but we are closing in on 
our annual target of 50%.

We have undertaken very successful Women in Leadership courses aimed at 
our  high  potential  women.  We  ran  two  cohorts  in  2016/17  and  plan  a  further 
cohort in 2018.

We  have  also  ensured  a  strong  mentoring  programme  is  in  place,  provided 
from our leadership team, for every female high potential candidate we have 
identified.

About us

Bouygues Energies & Services is a global leader in energy, 
digital and industrial transformation. We are proud to 
deliver tailor made solutions and services for our clients’ 
infrastructure, building and processes. 

We value the variety and innovation that our 2,600 UK 
employees bring. Our pledge is a diverse and inclusive 
workforce which offers fair treatment at work and a 
culture of mutual respect and dignity between colleagues. 

www.bouygues-es.co.uk
our-blog.bouygues-es.co.uk

