Gender Pay Gap Report 
City Building Engineering Services (CBES)
About CBES
CBES  takes  pride  in  offering  constructive  solutions,  including  a  wide 
range  of  construction  and  engineering  services.    We  are  part  of  City, 
one  of  the  world’s  largest,  privately  owned  facilities  management 
companies, with over 12,000 colleagues across five continents.
CBES  is  proud  of  our  culture  and  our  commitment  to  our  people. 
Succession  planning  and  colleague  development  is  a  key  part  of 
our  people  strategy  and  we  firmly  believe  in  providing  progression 
opportunities and helping each colleague reach their full potential.
The  following  report  has  been  produced  in  accordance  with  the 
Government’s  Equality  Act  2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap 
Information) 
Regulations 2017 with a snapshot date of 5 April 2017.

Pay quartiles
A (Lower quartile)

38.53%

61.47%

B (Lower middle quartile)

C (Upper middle quartile)

11.93%

3.67%

D (Upper quartile)
0.93%

Workforce demographics and  
gender pay gap

Female/Male colleagues

15.28%

84.72%

 F   

 M 

The  chart  to  the  left  demonstrates 
that women currently represent 15% 
of the CBES workforce.  Women are 
in  managerial, 
under-represented 
engineering  and 
technical 
roles 
and  are  predominantly  employed 
in  support  roles  within  the  office 
environment.
Males  and 
represented on our Group Board.

females  are  equally 

CBES Mean Gender Pay Gap 
CBES Median Gender Pay Gap 
UK’s National Mean Gender Pay Gap 
Source: Office of National Statistics 2016

33.09%
33.36%
18.1%

The above figures highlight the current gender pay gap within CBES. 
This  is  a  snapshot  of  the  difference  between  the  average  hourly  pay 
levels of all women compared to all men, irrespective of their role or 
level in the organisation, expressed as a percentage of men’s average 
pay.  
The hourly pay figure used to calculate the difference includes all items 
specified  in  the  regulations,  such  as  location  allowances  and  shift 
payments.
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly 
rate of pay for women, compared to the average hourly rate of pay for 
men, within a company.
The median represents the middle point of a population. If you lined up 
all of the women at a company and all of the men, the median pay gap 
is the difference between the hourly rate of pay for the middle woman 
compared to the hourly rate of pay for the middle man.
All CBES colleagues working in the same role and location, regardless 
of gender, are paid the same hourly rate of pay. 

88.07%

96.33%

99.07%

 

 F   

 M   

Gender distribution across CBES is represented in four equally sized hourly pay quartiles, shown above.  Proportionally more men hold managerial, 
engineering and technical positions, which are higher paid.

% of female population in each quartile

% of male population in each quartile

6.67% 1.67%

21.67%

70.00%

17.87%

28.53%

25.60%

28.00%

The charts to the left highlight how each gender’s population is 
represented across the four quartiles, these charts demonstrate 
90% of females are in the lower two quartiles. 

 A (Lower quartile)
 B (Lower middle quartile)

 C (Upper middle quartile)
 D (Upper quartile)

Gender bonus gap
The regulations define bonus as including commission, recognition and length of service awards in the form of cash and vouchers.  The proportion 
of each gender in receipt of a bonus and the gender bonus gap at CBES is outlined below:

Mean Gender Bonus Gap 
Median Gender Bonus Gap 

62.27%
61.39%

Only managerial, engineering supervisory positions and business 
development roles are eligible for bonus and/or commission within 
CBES therefore a higher proportion of males received a bonus. The 
definition  of  bonus  in  the  regulations  includes  recognition  and 
long service awards and all our colleagues, regardless of role, are 
eligible to receive these.

(F) 17.14%

(M) 33.25%
Bridging the gap
As a construction and engineering company, CBES faces the same challenges as other employers in the sector in recruiting women into roles. In the UK, only 
12.8% of the industry’s workforce is made up of women* however we are committed to increasing the number of females who apply for roles and progress 
their career within CBES. 
CBES has taken steps to improve our approach and working conditions for women including the enhancement of maternity pay, promoting flexible working 
and a childcare voucher scheme. We are also a long term supporter and sponsor of Women in Property which we believe will help promote change across 
the industry as well as within our business.
Apprenticeships are a crucial element of our resourcing and talent development strategy. We promote our apprenticeship programme nationally, feature 
female apprentices on our marketing materials and facilitate their attendance at the Scottish Apprenticeship Show to encourage female attendees to 
engage with us.  We also have a “Women in IT” apprenticeship strategy and actively look for opportunities to talk to and encourage young people, including 
females, into starting their career in IT through our apprenticeship programmes.  
We aim to improve our gender pay gap over the next 12 months by setting out a strategy which includes engagement with schools through our STEM 
ambassadors,  joining  forces  with  our  recruitment  partners  to  include  more  female  candidates,  attracting  more  female  apprentices  to  technical  roles 
and encouraging females to participate in our Pathways management and leadership programme.  This is open to all colleagues and in 2017, 50% of our 
participants were female.
 (*Source: Office of National Statistics)
For further information on City Building Engineering Services (CBES) visit www.cbes.co.uk

