LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited  
2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 
Under UK legislation (the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017), companies with 
250 or more employees in Great Britain are required to publish specified UK gender pay gap statistics. 
LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited is the UK employing entity for LexisNexis Risk Solutions, a global company 
which uses the power of data and advanced analytics to help its customers make better, timelier decisions.   

LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited employs just over 300 people in Great Britain, representing approximately 
7% of the business’s global employee population. This Report for LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited is 
published in accordance with the UK legislation. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING REQUIREMENT 

The UK gender pay gap is different from equal pay. The UK gender pay gap measures the overall difference 
between the average pay received by men and the average pay received by women in a workplace. It therefore 
reflects the different number of men and women at varying levels of seniority, and doing different roles. The UK 
gender pay gap does not measure or compare pay in like-for-like roles. By contrast, equal pay is a legal 
requirement in the UK to pay men and women the same for equal or similar work. LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK 
Limited is committed to equal pay and has policies in place to pay employees fairly for the role they do, 
irrespective of their gender. A UK gender pay gap can exist despite men and women being paid equally for the 
same or similar roles. 

The reason for the total pay gap at LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited is that there are more men than women 
at all levels and the proportion of men to women is higher in the top quartile, and indeed in the top half, of the pay 
scale than at the lower end, as illustrated by the Pay Quartile statistics below. Many factors contribute to this. For 
example, as a growing information and analytics business, LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited relies on talent 
with technology and analytics skills and those with industry expertise in sales and product management. These 
functional areas currently attract more men than women. 

The bonus pay gap statistics reflect the fact that opportunities to receive performance-related pay (for example 
annual and share based incentives and sales commission) increase with seniority and the more senior the 
population, the higher the proportion of men to women.  
 
THE ACTIONS WE ARE TAKING GLOBALLY 

LexisNexis Risk Solutions is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work place.  To learn more about our 
vision and initiatives, including our efforts to increase representation of women in senior roles, please click here. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP INFORMATION FOR LEXISNEXIS RISK SOLUTIONS UK LIMITED 
 

Pay Quartile  % of 
men  
82.5% 
72.5% 
77.8% 
58.0% 
 
 
 

Upper  
Upper Middle  
Lower Middle  
Lower  
 
 
 

% of 
women  
17.5% 
27.5% 
22.2% 
42.0% 
 
 
 

Median total pay 
gap per quartile 
17.3% 
2.0% 
0.7% 
-2.3% 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mean total pay gap 

Median total pay gap 
 
% of men receiving bonus pay 
% of women receiving bonus pay 
 
Mean bonus pay gap 
Median bonus pay gap 

28.5% 

24.4% 
 
72.6% 
72.0% 
 
83.3% 
34.0% 

 

I confirm that the information and data provided in this Report are accurate and in line with the UK legislation.  
Donald Welsko, EVP Human Resources and Corporate Services 
 
Notes 
1 The pay quartiles show the gender distribution across LexisNexis Risk Solutions UK Limited. Each pay quartile contains a quarter of the total LexisNexis Risk 
Solutions UK Limited employees, who were ranked from highest pay (upper quartile) to lowest pay (lower quartile). 
2 The total pay gap is based on employees’ hourly rate of pay, calculated using their ordinary pay and any bonus pay received in April 2017. Ordinary pay 
includes regular pay (eg base salary and allowances). Bonus pay includes all types of incentive pay (eg annual bonus, commission, share based award pay outs 
and option exercises).  
3 The proportions of men/women receiving bonus pay and the bonus pay gap are based on bonus pay received in the 12 months to 5 April 2017. 
4 The mean is found by adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values. 
5 The median is found by listing the values in order and finding the middle number in the list (or, if there are equal numbers, the mean of the 2 middle 
numbers). 

