Danone in the UK
Gender  
Pay Gap  
Report

Celebrating individuality 
in a diverse company

Danone believes in the benefits of working in a diverse, equal 
environment where people are supported to grow and realise their 
individual potential. Each person’s unique contribution and the value 
that their differences bring to our business is very important to us.

In the UK we have circa 1300 employees who share our core value 
of openness. So, when it comes to looking at topics like pay, bonus 
earnings and diversity policies, it’s normal for us to be open about 
exactly where we stand. 

We place a great emphasis on equity in our business and we’ve 
invested in processes and initiatives that underpin this commitment. 
Preparing the Gender Pay Gap Report has let us better understand 
what’s working and where we feel change would be beneficial. 

“Reporting  on  the  gender  pay  gap  gives  us  an 
opportunity to look at what we do through a different 
lens, but it’s only part of the story and we are firmly 
focused on fair treatment and on developing all of 

our people across our businesses”. 

Liz Ellis

HR Director,  UK & Ireland

The Danone Gender Balance Facts

UK are women

60% of our people in the 
47% of our directors are women, 
60% of new starters have been 

female, since April 2016

up from 25% in 2008  

About Danone 
Dedicated to bringing health through food to as many people as possible, Danone is a leading food company built on four business 
lines: Fresh Dairy Products, Early Life Nutrition, Waters and Advanced Medical Nutrition.* 

Through our mission and dual commitment to business success and social progress, we aim to be part of building a healthier 
future. This is underlined by our new One Planet, One Health signature, our way of showing our commitment to inspire healthier 
eating and drinking habits. We want to do this for all our stakeholders—our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers, 
shareholders and all the communities we work in.
*In this report you will see these businesses referred to by their legal entity names in the UK - Nutricia Ltd (Early Life Nutrition and Medical Nutrition), Danone Limited (Fresh 
Dairy Products), Danone Waters (UK & Ireland) Ltd (Waters), SHS International  Ltd (medical nutrition manufacturing) and Danone Holdings (UK) (our centralised business 
functions). In this report, “Danone UK” refers collectively to all of these Danone companies.

2

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17The Gender Pay Gap

Measuring the gender pay gap  
In 2017 the government introduced regulations that require organisations 
with 250 or more employees to report annually on their gender pay gap. 
This measures the difference in mean and median average pay between 
men and women, across the organisation, regardless of their role.

It does not measure equal pay, which relates to what women and men 
are paid for the same or similar jobs or work of equal value.

The Mean Pay Gap

The Median Pay Gap

The mean gender pay gap is the difference 

between the average hourly rate of pay for women 

compared to men in an organisation.

The median pay gap is the difference between the hourly 
rate of pay between women and men at the mid-point of 

each gender group in the business.

3

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17Our Results

Danone has a transparent policy when it comes to pay and 
processes and our people are rewarded predominantly based on 
their sustainable performance and their ability to grow.   

We take our commitment to equal pay very seriously. The objective 
is always to be fair, which is why we rigorously, and regularly, 
measure our annual performance assessments and pay awards.

The regulations require us to report our gender pay gap for two 
organisations in our group, Nutricia Ltd (which comprises two 
businesses, Advanced Medical Nutrition and Early Life Nutrition) 
and SHS International Ltd (the manufacturing branch of our 
medical business). We want to be fully transparent, so we are 
publishing the combined data for Danone UK, which also includes 
our additional three businesses. These are Danone Waters UK & 
Ireland) Ltd, Danone Limited and Danone Holdings (UK).  

Why do this? By looking at the gender pay gap across the whole 
Danone UK operation, we get a full picture so we can identify the 
right actions to benefit our business.  We believe it is the right thing 
to do and it’s what our people would expect.

Danone UK Gender Pay Gap

Danone UK Bonus Pay Gap

7.58% 

3.71% 

The mean hourly pay 
for men is 7.58% higher 
than it is for women

The median hourly pay 
for men is 3.71% higher 
than it is for women

The mean bonus pay for 
men is 34.01% higher 
than it is for women

The median bonus pay 
for men is 15.80% higher 
than it is for women

Population by Pay Quartile

We are required to report on the distribution of men and women across our business 
when the population is split into four equal pay quartiles.

32.31%

67.69%

45.99%

54.01%

40.12%

59.88%

43.21%

56.79%

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

The pay quartiles show that we have a higer overall number of women in our business. While the greatest 
proportion of women appear in the lower quartile, females are well distributed across our entire organisation and 
we have more females than males in the upper and upper middle quartiles. 

Proportion of men and women receiving a bonus
Men

Women

4

93.51%

90.03%

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17Analysing the Gap

Pay gap
In our company, the pay gap is driven by the distribution of women and men 
in certain parts of the business, combined with the nature of their roles. 

We have good distribution of women across our business, demonstrated 
by the split of our organisation by pay quartiles. In fact, across Danone UK, 
47% of director roles are occupied by women, with the number of female 
directors at Danone rising by 25% over the last ten years.

20% of our general manager population is female. This means that the 
majority of our general managers, who make up our more senior and 
highest paid positions, are men. 

In contrast, significantly more women occupy the roles at the lower end of 
our employee grading scale. The largest populations of females sit within 
nursing and healthcare customer service roles, mirroring the demographic 
of the healthcare sector, which is known to be heavily dominated by 
women. Danone UK is no exception, with 93% of nursing staff and 76% of 
healthcare customer service staff being women. 

Bonus gap
All of our employees qualify for an annual bonus. Our bonus levels relate to 
position, and the achievement of bonus is based on performance, meaning that 
our bonus schemes are gender neutral by design. 

As with the pay gap, the bonus gap is linked to the distribution of males and 
females across our business. As discussed earlier in the report, we have a 
higher proportion of male general managers than female, and these positions 
have significantly higher bonus targets than those at lower grades. 

The Gender Pay Gap report expects bonus payments to be included without 
taking into account the pro-rating of payments to reflect part-time or flexible 
working or people joining the business part-way through the year. At Danone, 
we try to support each of our people’s needs, so 150 people are employed on a 
part-time basis, of which, 96% are women. In 2017, 243 new joiners to Danone 
had their bonus pro-rated, 60% were women. The effect of this is that that their 
pro-rated bonuses amplify the bonus gap between men and women.

5

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17Our areas of focus

We know that when it comes to fairness and equity, we are already doing 
many things well. We focus on getting our recruitment, culture and personal 
development right, enabling our people to achieve as individuals. 

We always want to stretch our ambitions further and analysing our data for 
the Gender Pay Gap Report has given us new insights to help us do this. 

What are we already doing about….recruitment?

What are we already doing about….personal development?

•  Mandatory online training programmes and a multi-step recruitment process to 

combat unconscious bias and subjectivity 

•  At Danone our people own their own career, therefore we give people access 

to tools and support to help them to manage their own career choices 

•  Setting the right mindset for recruiting line managers

•  Ensuring fairness by using an independent recruitment team for management roles

•  Checking job offers to ensure equal pay is not influenced by external bias 

•  All our people have regular career and personal development conversations 

with their managers

•  We run annual talent reviews which are equal and robust and based on 

individual performance and leadership qualities 

and what are our plans…?

and what are our plans…?

•  To drive greater gender balance in all areas of our business, even if that 
means thinking differently about where and how we source people to 
encourage a wider and more diverse set of applicants

•  To support line managers so they can help their people to realise their own 

unique ambitions and follow the career paths that are right for them

•  To challenge all barriers to career progression, particularly linked to working 

patterns or geographical locations 

6

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17What are we already doing about….our culture?

•  We are actively living Danone’s global parental policy. In the UK we are 

focused on giving men the same access as women to time out to support 
their families

•  To support a diverse work-force we offer leading edge maternity, adoption, 

surrogacy, paternity and shared parental leave opportunities to all of our 
employees

•  We have a commitment to ensure careers continue and flourish following 

parental leave, that’s why year end reviews and pay awards assume 
continued performance at the same level following parental leave 

•  We support individual needs by making flexible arrangements including 

part-time, compressed hours, job sharing and remote working available for 
all employees to request

and what are our plans…?

•  To continue to identify roles at all levels of our business which support flexible 

working and to proactively advertise them on our internal career portal 

•  To increase the take up of existing initiatives, including shared parental leave 

and flexible working arrangements, to benefit all of our people 

“My background is in finance but after expressing an interest in 
gaining more commercial experience I have been offered the 
opportunity to take on a new sales role. I am really pleased the 
business  took  a  chance  on  me  as  someone  who  didn’t  have 
previous sales experience. It’s great for my career development 
because I can broaden my knowledge and insight and I believe it 
will challenge me personally, helping me to improve my decision 
making, strategic thinking and negotiation skills. I’m excited to 
be given an opportunity to move around the business as this will 

open up a broader range of future career moves.” 

Stathia Papazoglou 

National Account Executive

“I went on maternity leave to have my first baby in 2014 and 
had ten months out of the business.  I kept in regular touch with 
my line manager, who continued to talk to me about my career 
aspirations even though I was out of the business. While I was off, 
a promotion opportunity came up and the business held the job 
open for me until the end of my maternity leave and allowed me 
to come into the role four days a week. There was no pressure 
to return to work early - it was about what was right for me and 
my family.  It was great to know that my personal development 
and career progression were still important to the business even 

though I was away focusing on being a new mum.” 

Helen Whalley 

HR business partner 

7

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17Statutory Information

The information below is the statistical data that we are required to publish by the government on our gender pay gap. 
This comprises the mean and median gender pay gap, the mean and median gender bonus gap, the proportion of 
males and females receiving a bonus payment and the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile.

Nutricia Ltd
Nutricia Ltd represents two of our six businesses, Advanced Medical Nutrition and 
Early Life Nutrition, and has circa 670 employees in office based and field-based roles.

SHS International Ltd
SHS International Ltd is our only UK production site, which employs circa 300 
people, the majority in production and warehouse roles.

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Gap

Gender Pay Gap

Gender Bonus Gap

22.60% 

20.58% 

58.24% 

63.54% 

-5.28%*

-4.14%

-39.26%

Mean

Median

Mean
Proportion of Males and Females Receiving Bonus
Men

Women

Population By Pay Quartile

20.24%

16.77%

79.76%

83.23%

Median

88.88%

92.24%

Mean

Median

Mean
Proportion of Males and Females Receiving Bonus
Men

Women

Population By Pay Quartile

8.00%

-2.17%

Median

99.09%

95%

29.76%

70.24%

40.72%

59.28%

36.84% 63.16%

92.00%

31.58% 68.42%

29.33% 70.67%

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

* a gender pay gap in minus figures means that women, on average, are earning more than men

8

DANONE GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 17Declaration

We confirm the information and 
data reported is accurate as of the 
snapshot date 5th April 2017. 

Liz Ellis
HR Director UK & Ireland

James Pearson
General Manager

