In order to understand our gender pay gap, it is 
important to clarify that it is distinct from equal pay 
which is about ensuring that men and women are 
paid the same for carrying out work of equal value. 
Gender pay measures the gender balance within 
an organisation and the difference between the 
average earnings of all male and female 
employees.
 
The tables below show our overall median and 
mean gender pay and bonus gap, based on hourly 
rates of pay as at the snapshot date of 5th April 2017 
and bonuses paid in the year to 5th April 2017.

GENDER

PAY GAP REPORT 2017 

Mean
26%

Median

10%

Gender

Pay
Data 

Median

9%

Mean
12%

Difference between hourly 
earnings for men and women

All Employees

Difference between hourly 
earnings for men and women

Excluding Executive Directors

Analysis of our gender pay gap as at April 2017 shows that this arises because women hold 
fewer senior positions within the organisation than men - whilst women made up 42% of 
our total workforce in April 2017, all of our Executive Directors are male. Our mean pay 
gap excluding Executive Directors is 12%.  

In addition to the above, our gender pay gap is signiﬁcantly affected by the fact that three 
quarters of our executive Executive Directors have held their positions since the Company 
was founded in September 1998, with no other recruitment other than for a Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer having taken place over the last ten years. Further analysis of our data shows that it 
would take only two changes at Board level to reduce the gap to 3%. 

Median
Gender
pay gap
By Quartile

Lower
Quartile

42%

58%

Lower Middle

Quartile

Upper Middle

Quartile

47%

53%

45%

55%

Upper
Quartile

25%

75%

0%

0%

-3%

3%

Women 

  

Men

The salaries of our Store and Customer Support employees are paid in accordance with set 
pay bands meaning that the salaries for female employees within the Lower and Lower 
Middle Quartiles are 100% of their male equivalents.

Mean
64%

Median

32%

Difference between bonus
paid to men and women

All Employees

Bonus

Pay
Data 

Mean

Median

4%

16%

Difference between bonus
paid to men and women

Excluding Executive Directors

& Part Time Employees

Percentage of staff receiving a bonus payment

5%

16%

95%

84%

Percentage of male staff

receiving a bonus payment

Percentage of female staff
receiving a bonus payment

Did not receive bonus  

 Received bonus

All of our employees are in a performance related bonus scheme, which is paid as a 
percentage of salary. Our bonus pay gap, is largely a consequence of the inclusion of 
Executive Directors' bonuses, as well as a three year equity settled Long Term Incentive 
Plan vesting and being exercised during the year. Our bonus pay gap is also affected by 
the fact that 67% of our part-time employees are female and only 35% of our full-time 
employees are female. If we exclude Executive Directors and part-time employees from our 
calculations, our mean bonus gap falls to 4%.

In relation to those employees who did not receive a bonus payment, if we were to adjust 
for employees who were not employed during the period to which the bonus related, 99% 
of females and 100% of males who were eligible to receive a bonus did in fact receive one.

Our Actions 
We recognise that our success stems from attracting the right people and we believe in 
creating a diverse and gender balanced workforce, which not only reﬂects the 
communities in which we operate but also ensures that we have a fully motivated and 
engaged team. We will carry on doing this by making sure that every policy and practice 
encourages inclusive ways of working, in line with the Big Yellow culture.

We aim to promote ﬂexible working across the organisation, with a number of our Head 
Ofﬁce employees being home based, others working ﬂexibly from home and all employees 
being able to work from any location within the business.
 
Our family friendly policies include enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption pay and 
our parental leave policy encourages both men and women to share childcare 
commitments. 

We will continue to recruit based on merit and ensure that our recruitment processes are 
bias free. We have recently recruited a female at senior management level to replace a 
position previously held by a male employee and will continue to endeavour to increase 
the number of women in all senior positions.
 
In addition, we intend to review our recruitment practices to actively increase the 
representation of women within store management positions, as well as better utilising our 
internal development programmes to encourage a greater number of women to progress 
within the Company. We will also be introducing a speciﬁc return to work programme for 
employees returning from maternity leave. 

I conﬁrm that the data contained within this report is accurate.

 
James Gibson
Chief Executive
 

