Dounreay 

Dounreay Site Restoration Limited (DSRL)

Gender
pay gap report
2017

Introduction 
from Phil Craig
Managing Director

Dounreay is Scotland's largest 
decommissioning project and is 
recognised as Europe's most complex 
nuclear closure programme. The site has 
a history that goes back to the 1950s 
followed by decades as the UK's centre 
for fast reactor research. The team is now 
aiming to be recognised for 
decommissioning excellence as it delivers 
a programme expected to last until 
around 2030.

Our mission: “To 
responsibly deliver the 
interim end state within 
the target cost and time 
and support the transition 
of our people”.

It will be successful in achieving this only 
if we are able to utilise all the talents of all 
our people to build high performing 
teams. DSRL is committed to creating a 
working environment where everyone is 
respected, included and able to perform 
at their best regardless of their gender, 
age, ethnicity, sexual orientation or any 
form of diversity. 

I welcome this opportunity to review and 
report on our gender pay gap as this will 
help us to understand better:
•  the levels of gender equality in our 

organisation

•  the balance of male and female 

employees at different levels
•  how effectively talent is being 

maximised and rewarded.

I am authorised by the DSRL board to 
conrm that the information published in 
this report is correct in accordance with 
The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017 and has 
been veried by the Head of Finance.

DSRL has a median gender pay gap of 
10.29%. This compares favourably with 
the UK national gender pay gap of 18.4% 
and with many other organisations in our 
industry. However, our aspiration is to 
reduce this gap further over the coming 
years.

We have identied a number of priority 
action areas, as part of our equality, 
diversity and inclusion (EDI) strategy, 
highlighted in this report, which will help 
us make the changes necessary to 
increase the levels of diversity we need 
within our organisation and, by doing so, 
help reduce the gender pay gap. 

I am proud to be a member of the 
recently established Dounreay Women's 
Network. This group wants Dounreay 'to 
be recognised as the leading Nuclear 
Decommissioning Authority site for 
employing women in leadership roles 
within the next two years'. This is an 
ambitious goal but one which directly 
addresses the key challenge for our 
business identied in this report.

I am committed to ensuring that our EDI 
strategy continues to be given the priority 
it requires and that the action plans we 
have agreed are implemented with the full 
support of the management team.

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

DSRL has a

10.29%

difference in median

gender pay gap

UK national

gender pay gap =

18.40%

1

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

Introduction
The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 require all 
organisations with 250 or more employees to publish and report specic data about 
their gender pay gap by 4 April 2018 and annually thereafter.

What information is provided
in this report?
We are required to report against 6 prescribed indicators to show the difference 
between the average earnings of men and women in the organisation, including the:

This is DSRL's rst gender pay gap report. 

This report complies with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 and has been 
produced in line with the associated ACAS guidance on 'Managing gender pay 
reporting', 2017.

This report will be published on DSRL's website and on the Government's website.

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average earnings of men and 
women, expressed relative to men’s earnings. It is not the same as equal pay for 
men and women who carry out the same job, similar jobs or jobs of equal value. 
Equal Pay deals with comparing one job with another – the gender pay gap is 
about the difference in gender pay across the whole organisation.

•  mean and median gender pay gaps
•  mean and median gender bonus gaps
•  proportion of men and women who receive bonuses
•  proportions of male and female employees in each pay quartile

We have also included some additional data to help put this information into the 
organisational context.

The data in this report is based on a 'snapshot' of the pay of all DSRL employees as 
at 5 April 2017, as well as bonuses paid between 6 April 2016 and 5 April 2017. 

This report fulls DSRL's reporting requirements, analyses the data in more detail and 
explains what we are doing to close the gender pay gap in the organisation.

2

Gender pay gap analysis

1.  Mean gender pay gap
This is the difference between the mean (average) hourly rate of pay 
for all men in the organisation and the mean hourly rate of pay for all 
women, expressed as a percentage of the mean hourly rate for men. 

For DSRL:
•  The mean hourly pay rate for men is £21.88
•  The mean hourly pay rate for women is £19.18
•  The mean gender pay gap is £2.70 per hour or 12.34%

2.  Median gender pay gap
This is the difference between the median (middle) value of hourly pay 
rates (when ordered from lowest to highest) for all men in the 
organisation and the median value of hourly pay rates for all women, 
expressed as a percentage of the median hourly rate for men.

For DSRL:
•  The median hourly pay rate for men is £20.39
•  The median hourly pay rate for women is £18.29
•  The median gender pay gap is £2.10 per hour or 10.29%

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

£2.70
(12.34%)
mean gender

pay gap

£2.10
(10.29%)
median gender

pay gap

£21.88 £19.18
MEN WOMEN
mean hourly pay rate

£20.39 £18.29
MEN WOMEN
median hourly pay rate

3

3.  Mean gender bonus gap
This is the difference between the mean (average) value of bonuses for all 
men in the organisation and the mean value of bonuses for all women, 
expressed as a percentage of the mean bonus for men. This data set is 
for all employees who received a bonus and does not take into account 
part time hours.

For DSRL, based on bonus paid in the period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017:
•  The mean bonus paid to men is £1,688.06
•  The mean bonus paid to women is £1,327.53
•  The mean gender bonus gap is £360.53 or 21.35%

4.  Median gender bonus gap
This is the difference between the median bonus paid to all men (when 
ordered from lowest to highest) in the organisation and the median bonus paid 
to all women, expressed as a percentage of the median bonus paid to men. 
This data set is for all employees who received a bonus and does not take into 
account part time hours.

For DSRL, based on bonus paid in the period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017:
•  The median bonus paid to men is £1,341.16
•  The median bonus paid to women is £1,245.28
•  The median gender bonus gap is £95.88 or 7.14%

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

£360.53
(21.35%)
mean gender
bonus gap

£1,688.06 £1,327.53
MEN WOMEN

mean bonus

£95.88
(7.14%)
median gender
bonus gap

£1,341.16 £1,245.28
MEN WOMEN
median bonus

4

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

5.  The proportions of male and female employees who received a bonus
This shows the extent to which women are paid bonuses in comparison to men. 

For DSRL, based on bonus paid in the period 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017:
•  97.75% of men received a bonus
•  99.42% of women received a bonus

97.75%
MEN

99.42%
WOMEN

employees who received a bonus

6.  The proportion of male and female employees in each pay quartile
This shows the proportion of men and women in each quartile pay band. 

How is this worked out?

•  take all the hourly pay rates, ordered from lowest to highest, for all men and 

women in an organisation and divide them into four equal groups 
designated as: lower; lower middle; upper middle and upper quartiles

•  next, calculate the number of men and women within each quartile as a 

percentage of all employees within that quartile. This shows the proportions 
of men and women in each quartile of the overall pay distribution.

gender by pay quartile

% female

% male

36.2

32.8

30.4

63.8
Lower

67.2
Lower
middle

69.6
Upper
middle

15.3

84.7
Upper

5

Why we have a gender pay gap?
DSRL has a (mean) gender pay gap of 12.34% and a (mean) gender 
bonus gap of 21.35%.

The primary reason for the gender pay gap is the under-representation of women in 
higher earning jobs within the organisation. There are two elements which contribute 
to this position:

•  under-representation of women in more senior job roles, which have higher 

normal pay and bonus earning potential

•  under-representation of women in shift jobs, which attract signicant shift pay 

enhancements

The gender bonus gap is larger than the gender pay gap because bonus payments 
are paid on a pro-rata basis in accordance with the number of hours worked. As 
result, part-time workers, of whom the majority in DSRL are women, receive a lower 
bonus compared to fulltime employees on the same normal pay rate.

Women in the workforce
The DSRL workforce is 71% male and 29% female. Women are therefore under-
represented in the organisation as a whole compared to the proportion of 
women in the total UK working population (currently around 47%). 

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

12.34%
21.35%

(mean) gender pay gap

(mean) gender bonus gap

gender by pay band
% male

% female

The distribution of 
women across the 
pay bands show that 
women are over-
represented in the 
lower job bands and 
under-represented in 
the higher job bands, 
with no female senior 
managers.

16

84

29

71

33

67

26

74

23

77

100

Apprentice

Support

Technician

Professional

Leadership

Senior

6

Women in the workforce
There are clear gender differences in occupational categories of employment 
which impacts on pay. Men are more likely to be employed in higher earning 
operational, engineering, technical and managerial roles whilst women are more 
likely to be employed in lower earning administrative and support functions. 

This is illustrated by the gender distribution for two specic occupational 
categories of operational shift workers and administrators.

This position reects the historic patterns of recruitment at Dounreay, and the 
rest of the nuclear industry, where men have predominated in the science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects, as well as 
operational and skilled trade jobs.

Almost 10% of people in the organisation work part-time: 75% are women 
(accounting for 25% of the total number of female employees) and 25% are men 
(representing 3% of the total number of male employees). 

Women who work part-time tend to be younger and predominantly have asked 
for exible working arrangements on return to work after maternity leave. The 
number of men who work part-time has increased since the removal of the 
default retirement age. The majority of men who work part-time have reached 
their normal retirement age (60) and wish a phased transition to retirement.

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

workers by gender
% male

% female

2

98

4

96

Shift workers
MEN = 99        FEMALE = 2

Administrators
MEN = 2        FEMALE = 46

part-time workers by gender

(10% of the workforce are part-time)

25

75

% male

% female

7

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

Recruitment processes
•  DSRL introduced 'name blind' shortlisting for all external recruitment in 2017, in a 

move to remove unconscious bias at that stage.

•  All selection panels have an HR professional involved as a panel member or advisor.
•  All recruiting managers will attend mandatory unconscious bias training as part of 

our wider EDI action plan during 2018.

Promoting STEM career opportunities
for women
•  Graduate and apprentice recruitment campaigns have focused on increasing 

applications from females. This has been successful in seeing a signicant 
increase in the number of female graduates appointed. The position for 
engineering apprentices has been less successful more recently and will 
continue to be a priority.

What are we doing to address
our gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap analysis has identied that under-representation of women 
in higher earning jobs is the principal reason for the gap. We also recognise that 
increasing diversity and inclusion generally is an important contributor to the 
future success of the business. We have developed an equality, diversity and 
inclusion (EDI) strategy and associated action plan which is central to our focus 
on how we increase diversity at all levels.

Improving representation of
women in our workforce
To close the current gender pay gap (and improve the level of diversity more 
generally) we will need to continue to improve our ability to attract and appoint 
females into higher earning jobs. 

DSRL has a stable workforce with a low turnover rate (<3%). The size of the 
workforce will also start to reduce as the decommissioning programme 
progresses towards the interim end state date in 2030. As a result, recruitment 
levels will be relatively modest which will restrict the opportunities to make 
signicant changes to the balance of men and women in the workforce as a 
whole. However, we will continue to recruit to specialist engineering, project 
management and technical roles and to invest in new talent through our 
graduate, apprentice and other training schemes.

Our recruitment strategies aim to increase the diversity of new people joining the 
organisation.

8

Promoting STEM career
opportunities for women
•  DSRL is actively involved in supporting Developing the Young Workforce 

(DYW) activities in local schools through the STEM and Business 
Ambassadors programmes.

Increasing diversity within occupational
categories of employment
The gender pay gap analysis identied gender differences between occupational 
categories which contribute to the gap.

As the decommissioning programme progresses there is likely to be an increase in 
the number of opportunities in higher earning roles, such as shift working, which are 
male dominated. If there is no change to the gender distribution in these roles this 
may have the effect of increasing the gender pay gap.

We will investigate what factors inuence this gender segregation to identify what 
action needs to be taken to remove potential barriers to achieving greater diversity 
across occupational categories.

EDI strategy and action plans
We have already developed an EDI strategy for DSRL and implemented a 
number of actions:
•  We have set up new governance arrangements through the appointment of 

an EDI champion, who sits on the DSRL executive committee, and 
established an EDI forum

•  We have carried out an EDI workforce survey to increase our understanding 

of perceptions of EDI issues across the organisation and we are currently 
reviewing the results from this to inform our future strategy

•  We have carried out EDI awareness training across the organisation and EDI 

is now a standard feature of our staff communications

•  We have signed the Women in Nuclear Charter and established a Dounreay 

Women's Network

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

graduates appointed
% male

% female

20

80

30

70

36

64

2016

2015
2017
apprentices appointed

% female
12

% male
10

88

2016

90

2017

33

67

2015

9

EDI strategy and action plans
Our forward action plans include:
•  Reviewing our exible working arrangements to identify what barriers may 

exist preventing mobility across the workforce

•  Review focus of performance management
•  Adopt an inclusive approach to talent and leadership development
•  Increase career development support, for example through increased use of 

mentoring

These actions have been incorporated into the Dounreay Improvement Plan 
which is used as a tool for monitoring and reporting on actions across the 
organisation.

DSRL gender pay gap report 2017

10

Dounreay 

