Gender pay gap reporting 
statement 

 

Supporting statement 
LPP is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion throughout the organisation and 
particularly to improving access in both our employment and service arrangements. Our 
policies and working practices reflect our commitment towards maintaining and 
advancing diversity and inclusion within our business, and for our clients and customers.  

The gender pay gap data published on both the LPP website and the Government 
website, applies to the LPP Group as a whole which currently has three offices at 
geographically different locations; Central London, Hertford and Preston, Lancashire.  

Given the diverse nature of our business, LPP operates a job family driven, performance 
related pay programme benchmarked against the Financial Services Sector.  Pay scales 
are reviewed and updated annually in line with the published survey data and include 
regional pay differentials, applying to each location.  These are therefore location specific 
and not gender specific. 

In summary, the statistics show: 

•  The gender bonus pay gap appears larger than average which is primarily due to 

a previously agreed long term incentive plan payment being made to one 
individual over a three-year period as part of a retention mechanism.  This 
payment, which is made in three equal parts over a three-year period, will not be 
repeated and will therefore over time rebalance the statistics. 
 
In general, the proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment 
shows a slight trend towards female staff. 
 

•  The proportion of males and females in each quartile band shows a trend moving 
progressively towards closer gender proportions particularly in the upper middle 
and upper quartiles.    

• 

LPP aims to continue to review the data and to identify options to reduce the gender pay 
gap over time.  This includes, but is not limited to; 1) regularly reviewing the staff 
remuneration policy and updating accordingly; 2) ensuring staff bonus schemes are 
relevant, fit for purpose and open to all within each given category; and 3) reviewing 
recruitment and other HR processes such as succession planning and training. 

Employee numbers by group/entity 

 
Group / Entity Name 
LPP Group 
LPP 
LPPI 

 

Staging Date 
5th April 2017 

250 
222 
28 

Eligible LPP GROUP DATA (covers all three office locations; Central London, Hertford 
and Preston, Lancashire, all with appropriate regional pay differentials.  
 
 

 

 

 

Page 1 of 2 

Gender pay gap reporting 
statement 

 

 

 

Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap 
Mean bonus pay gap 
Median bonus pay gap 
Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment: 
Males receiving Bonus 
Females receiving Bonus 
Proportion of males and females in each quartile band: 
Lower Quartile: 

28.33% 
13.11% 
54.04% 

93% 

13.63% 
14.28% 

Lower Middle Quartile: 

Upper Middle Quartile:  

Upper Quartile:  

 

Using staging date 
of 5th April 2017 

Male: 39.7% 
Female: 60.3% 
Male: 32.8% 
Female: 67.2% 

Male: 47.6% 

Female: 52.4% 
Male: 57.3% 
Female: 42.7% 

Summary findings 
In Preston, Lancashire the workforce is made up of 60% female employees with 92% of 
those females earning less than £40k per annum.  This is typical for the local area and 
correlates with the Lancashire County Council statistics from which the majority of the 
workforce came. 

Investment staff remuneration is amongst the highest within the LPP group due to the 
market rate which is attributable to these roles. The gender split in this part of the 
business is 71% male and 29% female employees with the top two grades exclusively 
male employees. 

Variable pay only applies to the Executive Committee and the majority of employees 
within the Investment business, the latter of which is predominately male.  As such the 
bonus distribution is skewed towards the male population. 

LPP Group continues to review its staff remuneration policy and, through this, it will seek 
to reduce the gender pay gap over time. This includes, auditing and reviewing staff 
bonus schemes annually, reviewing recruitment and succession planning processes and 
ensuring development opportunities are open to all employees within the business. 

I hereby confirm that the information above is accurate. 

Susan Martin, CEO 

 

 

Page 2 of 2 

