UK GENDER PAY GAP

REPORT 2017

BARING ASSET MANAGEMENT LIMITED

Gender Pay Gap Report

Barings welcomes the opportunities for improvement in light of the findings of this Gender Pay Gap Report 2017. As 
gender is an important component of the firm’s diversity initiatives, the firm will continue to advocate for enhanced 
recruitment efforts of women for all levels and to elevate and broaden our global talent management programs for all 
employees. The required statistics, as well as some supplementary analysis, are provided on the following page.

While the gender pay gap at Barings is lower than industry averages published by the Office for National Statistics, 
it serves as an important reminder that there are always opportunities to further increase our efforts to create a 
diverse environment, with a wealth of women in senior leadership positions, so that the firm is as inclusive as it is 
progressive. 

Embracing diversity is embedded in our corporate culture. Barings is committed to the recruitment, retention and 
continual development of a diverse workforce and knows that individuals with a variety of experiences and 
backgrounds, including gender, race, ethnicity, education, beliefs and skills, make us a more productive and 
competitive firm that employees want to be part of and our clients demand. 

Advanced talent management programs, along with active participation in community-based events, create 
expanded peer networking opportunities while reinforcing the firm’s service-oriented commitment. As such, 
the Barings Women’s Network was established in 2017 on five pillars – Engagement, Education, Talent Retention, 
Networking and Recruitment – with planned global expansion in 2018 to further build relationships and expand 
mentoring opportunities within the firm and within the asset management industry. 

Barings is committed to closing the gender pay gap, and we are committed to broadening and expanding career 
opportunities so that we can increase the pool of talent from which we can recruit and promote women into more 
senior levels within the organisation. We believe these efforts will create a more progressive environment where 
women can strengthen their professional development and contributions to the firm, our clients and our industry.  

 

Tom Finke 
Chairman & 
Chief Executive Officer

Sue Moore
Chief Administrative Officer & 
Head of Global Human Resources

2

Barings (BAML in UK) Gender Pay Gap Statistics

Understanding the Methodology
The gender pay gap demonstrates the difference in the mean and median hourly pay of men and women across the 
whole organisation, regardless of their role or area of the business in which they work. It does not compare the pay of 
men and women who are carrying out similar or equivalent work, which is referred to as “equal pay.”
As is the case throughout the financial services sector, including the asset management industry, the gender pay gap at 
Barings is largely a structural problem due to an underrepresentation of women at senior levels within the organisation. 
At Barings, our process for determining compensation is gender-neutral, and we are confident that men and women 
carrying out equivalent work in equivalent roles are rewarded in the same way. 
Please note that the data contained within this report is only in relation to Barings Asset Management Limited, which falls 
within the scope of the U.K. gender pay reporting regulations.
Gender Pay Gap
All U.K. companies with 250 or more employees on 5 April 2017 are 
required to publish the following gender pay statistics:

Proportion Of Males and 
Females By Pay Quartile

Female
Male

Lower Middle

Lower

50% 50%

32%

68%

Upper Middle

Upper

29%

71%

20%

80%

•  Mean and median gender pay gap
•  Mean and median gender bonus gap
•  Proportion of males and females receiving a bonus
•  Proportion of males and females by quartile pay band

MEAN
23%

Difference between mean hourly pay received by men 
and women, expressed as a percentage of the mean 
men’s rate.

MEDIAN

29%

Difference between median hourly pay received by men 
and women, expressed as a percentage of the median 
men’s rate.

The mean and median gender pay gap is based on hourly rates of pay as 
of 5 April 2017. The mean and median gender bonus gap reflects bonuses 
received in the 12 months leading up to 5 April 2017.

Financial & Insurance 

Sector Mean*

35.1%

Financial & Insurance 

Sector Median*

35.6%

*According to the Office for National Statistics 2017 Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings
Gender Bonus Gap

Proportion Of Males And Females Receiving A Bonus

MEAN
56%

MEDIAN

52%

10.2%

Male

10%

Female

Received a bonus
Did not receive a 
bonus

89.8%
89.8%

90%

Received a bonus
Did not receive a 
bonus

3

