Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Introduction

To enable us to achieve our goal of the maximum level of client satisfaction in everything we undertake, 
we must perform at our best. To do this we need a diversity of ideas, experiences, and backgrounds.
 
I am proud to be Bowmer & Kirkland’s Ambassador in our support of the ‘Inspire Me’ campaign led 
by Construction News. It aims to address the gender imbalance in the construction industry and to 
encourage and support women into senior positions.

We have committed to the Inspire Me campaign as we believe passionately that more women should 
be part of our exciting and rewarding industry. The gender gap across the Bowmer & Kirkland Group 
is improving, but we still have a long way to go. We employ women in a variety of roles across our 
business, many of whom are excelling in their field, but we want to be able to promote more women. 
The industry must do more to encourage diversity and we are delighted to be part of the Inspire Me 
campaign.

Chris Kirkland, Director

2

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Our Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

The Bowmer & Kirkland Group is very much a family company which currently employs over 1,400 staff.  
Our values, ethos and culture are moulded by the fact that we are family-owned.  All our staff are supported 
by our career development plans and encouraged to be all they can be.  Our people underpin our core 
values and are one of the major reasons for our success.  

We continue to battle against the notion that construction is generally for men and we actively seek to 
encourage women to join this exciting industry and to take advantage of the opportunities it and our 
company afford. 

The ratio of males to females in April 2017 for Bowmer & Kirkland, shown in the chart below, demonstrates 
the imbalance that we continue to address. 

18%

82%

Male
Female

Bowmer & Kirkland

Gender pay reporting requirements

From April 2017, all UK organisations that employ over 250 employees are required by law to publish their 
gender pay gap report on an annual basis, under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender pay Gap Information) 
Regulations  2017.   The  report  requires  organisations  to  publish  a  range  of  data  based  on  a  standard 
methodology.  All organisations are required to use data on a specific ‘snapshot’ date which is 5th April 
annually.  

The difference between equal pay and gender pay

Equal pay is when men and women are paid the same for like for like work, whereas gender pay is the 
difference between the hourly earnings for both men and women across an organisation.  We are confident 
that our pay structure is gender neutral and both men and women receive equal pay for work of equal 
value.

3

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hourly Pay Gap

The foremost reason for the gender pay gap within our industry is that historically there are fewer women 
whose chosen careers lie within construction, which has a direct effect on the number of those who have 
attained  positions  within  the  senior  leadership  team.    As  part  of  our  strategy,  Bowmer  &  Kirkland  are 
committed to addressing this imbalance.

The gender pay gap between male and female employees demonstrates the difference between the gross 
hourly rate for men and women as a percentage.  The figures are based on hourly rates of pay for Bowmer 
& Kirkland as at 5th April 2017.  

The mean average is calculated by adding all the numbers and dividing by the number of employees in 
both the male and female list.  

The median is calculated by listing all the numbers in numerical order and finding the middle number, for 
both male and female hourly pay and conveyed as a percentage.

Hourly Pay Gap

Mean
37.3%

Median
44.6%

From our calculations we have established that the mean hourly pay rate for females is 37.3% lower than 
their male colleagues and median hourly gap for females is 44.6%.

In line with the construction industry, Bowmer & Kirkland continues to face the challenge of recruiting 
women into the company and subsequently we have less women to promote into senior positions. To 
continue to address the imbalance, we work with schools to promote the construction industry to all, 
specifically  using  female  employees  to  promote  the  success  of  their  career  and  development,  thereby 
highlighting the opportunities available.     

4

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Bonus Pay Gap

Bonus  payments  are  discretionary  and  based  on  the  performance  of  the  company  in  any  given  year. 
Employees of Bowmer & Kirkland Ltd are eligible to receive a bonus if they have at least six months service 
and are in employment on the date of the payment. In the period ending April 2017, 81% of men and 88% 
of women received a bonus payment.

The  mean  and  median  bonus  payments  received  by  female  employees  are  lower  than  that  of  male 
employees. The percentages are shown in the table below:

Bonus Gap

Mean
87.6%

Median
77.3%

At the snapshot, more women were employed in less senior roles and this is reflected in the figures. It is 
envisaged that over the coming years that as more women are employed in the construction industry, the 
seniority of the female workforce will increase.  

5

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Pay Quartiles

The tables below show the distribution of gender across the four quartiles.  The quartiles are calculated 
from the lowest earners to the highest earners.

Lowest quartile
Lower middle quartile 
Upper middle quartile 
Upper quartile 

% of women
35
27
5
5

% of men
65
73
95
95

Our Gender Pay Gap

Our Group Financial Director is a woman and a number of our senior posts are held by women but we still 
need to improve.

Our  gender  pay  gap  is  predominately  due  to  the  unequal  distribution  of  men  and  women  within  our 
organisation.  We operate within a sector which historically has been dominated by men.  We are striving 
to promote more women into senior roles and only through our sustained commitment to gender equality 
and the implementation of positive strategies, will we continue to attract women into our business to 
address this gap. 

8

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Female Role Models on Site

Diversity in construction is important to us

Our  support  for  Construction  News’  Inspire  Me 
campaign isn’t just a signature on a piece of paper. 
We are actively encouraging greater diversity in the 
industry.

Our aim is well illustrated on site at Cramlington in 
the North East, where we are building new office and 
warehouse  facilities  for  PII  Pipeline  Solutions.  Both 
our Project Manager and Assistant Site Manager are 
women. Our groundworks and civil engineering sub-
contractor,  Rainton  Construction,  is  also  following 
our  lead  -  one  of  their  groundworkers  and  their 
trainee Site Engineer are also women.

Four women on site, on the operational side of the 
project,  hasn’t  gone  unnoticed  by  the  Considerate 
Constructors Scheme. After a recent visit by one of 
their monitors, the CCS is now planning a case study 
specifically  around  the  women,  how  they  got  into 
construction  and  how  they  believe  the  industry 
could encourage greater diversity.

Our Project Manager, Liz Wilson, said: “It’s so important for us to show young women how interesting and 
varied construction can be. The camaraderie between us has been great on this site and I think women 
bring a different outlook and way of thinking to a project.”

Liz heads a team which includes Assistant Site Manager Charlotte Richardson, who joined B&K three years 
ago after achieving a First Class Honours Degree in Property Development and Architectural Design.

Rainton  Construction’s  Maureen  Nelson,  is  currently  working  for  them  as  a  groundworker.  During  her 
career in the industry, Maureen has also been a bricklayer and tower crane driver.  Her colleague, eighteen-
year-old trainee Site Engineer Ashleigh Dunning, is studying for a Diploma in Construction and the Built 
Environment.

9

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Bowmer & Kirkland Limited, 

High Edge Court,

 Heage, 
Belper, 

Derbyshire, 
DE56 2BW  

Tel: 01773 853131  Fax: 01773 856710

www.bandk.co.uk

@bandkbuild

