GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

As an organisation that values the contribution made by all of its colleagues and as an 

employer with teams throughout the UK and various sites around the world, Radley & Co 
are committed to creating a workplace where all colleagues are treated and paid in a fair 

and equitable manner. 

We are committed to ensuring that women and men are paid the same wage for doing 

the same job and as such we have confidence that there is no inconsistency in how we pay 

women and men who do similar work.

We aim to offer flexibility, variety and opportunity across the organisation and look to 

promote from within wherever possible. We are proud to have recently concluded our first 
Executive Development Programme, of which 100% of enrolled colleagues were female. 

At the snapshot date, 5th April 2017, we employed 505 people in the UK, 435 (86%) of our colleague 

base were women with a large proportion of those working within our retail stores (66%).

86% 
Female

14%  
Male

Our Senior Leadership Team was an equal split with 3 women and 3 men.

The gender distribution across four equal pay quarters was as follows; 

73% 
Female

26%  
Male

82% 
Female

18%  
Male

Top Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

92% 
Female

8%  
Male

98% 
Female

2%  
Male

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile 

OUR FINDINGS

Whilst the figures for colleagues across the business show a gender pay gap, this results from a 

difference in pay structures across our organisational structure. As a female focused brand, we attract 

a high proportion of female colleagues; the majority of which work in our retail stores, with the 

majority of our male colleagues working in roles within our corporate business areas. In addition to 

our stores, we have offices in London & Milton Keynes and specialist / technical roles carry, on average, 

higher rates of pay in line with industry standards within the retail sector. 

By way of illustration, analysis of the gender pay gap for our retail business demonstrates a mean 
gender pay gap of -1.8% with the median being -0.4%; indicating that on average our female retail 

colleagues earn slightly more than our male colleagues. 

Analysis of bonus payments in our retail business shows that in addition to increased levels of 

average pay, women receive an increased level of average bonus (mean & median) in comparison to 
male colleagues. This is as a result of having a strong female leadership team, as the majority of our 

Store Managers are women. 

Looking at our business as a whole, as a result of having a diverse range of roles and responsibilities 
for both men and women across all of our operational channels, we have a mean gender pay gap of 
47.5% and a median of 31%. Overall we made bonus payments to 72.4% of our female colleagues and 

41.4% male colleagues with gender bonus gap being 83.2% (mean) and -100.00% (median). 

OUR COMMITMENTS

Radley & Co Management aims to continually drive and deliver a culture of equality 
with reward and promotion based on performance, enthusiasm, commitment and 

future potential. We offer all forms of flexibility where possible and support our teams 

in both personal and professional development.

Jayne Worden 

Chief Financial Officer

