 

Hilton Foods UK Limited – Gender Pay Report 2017 

At Hilton Foods UK, we support our people to be the best that they can be. It is important that Hilton’s continuing 
growth is linked with the growth of our people with equal opportunity for all.   

In common with many other UK employers, our gender pay gap is driven by employing more males than females at 
a senior level. In addition, there is a history of our sector being male dominated.  

Overall Pay Gap 
Our Gender Pay Gap at 5th April 2017: 

1.  The difference between the MEAN hourly rate of male and female employees was 4.24% 
2.  The difference between the MEDIAN hourly rate of male and female employees was 7.73% 

Despite our circumstances, our pay gap is lower than the national average and reflects the focus we have on ensuring 
equal opportunity for all.  

Quartile Pay Bands 

3.  The impact of more men than women being employed in more senior roles is shown below. Here we have 
ranked all employees pay from lowest to highest and then divided the population in to four equal groups 
which we have analysed by the proportion of Male and Female employees in each of 4 quartiles: 

Quartiles 
Lower  
Lower Middle  
Upper Middle  
Upper   

Percentage 

Percentage 

Male 
57% 
61% 
64% 
73% 

Female 

43% 
39% 
36% 
27% 

Bonus Pay 
We are also required to report on the bonus payments received by male and female employees to identify the bonus 
Gender Pay Gap, for those receiving bonus pay (data relates to bonus payments received in the 12 months ending 5th 
April 2017): 

4.  The difference between the MEAN bonuses paid to relevant male employees and those paid to relevant 

female employees was -7.4%  

5.  The difference between MEDIAN bonuses paid to relevant male employees and those paid to relevant female 

employees was 7.4% 

6.  1.9% of male employees received bonus pay; 4.4% of female employees received bonus pay 

Whilst the median gap reflects the historic male dominance within the industry, the inverse mean gap reflects the 
impact women are having at the more senior levels within the management team. 

Since the reporting period, we have been highly successful in recruiting senior women into office based professional 
roles. Through our recruitment processes, we ensure the best-fit hire whoever you are.   

We have been pleased to welcome ten women and thirty-one men into our office-based team and female pay for 
these recruits is on average 27% higher. This is a reflection of their seniority.    

It is essential that we continue our focus on equal opportunity for all and reduce the gap. Hand in hand with 
recruitment, we also increased our focus on learning and development and piloted a new approach to capability and 
succession, which will be implemented this year.  This activity along with many others continue the journey of 
supporting our people to be the best they can be whoever they are.  

I confirm that the information above is accurate. 

Frank McMyler, Director  
Hilton Foods UK Limited 
27 March 2018 

 

