GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2018

TITLEINTRODUCTION

2

A MESSAGE FROM STEVE MUNN, DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES

We are committed to making Oxfordshire a fair and equal place in which to live, 
work and visit. We recognise and support the aim of gender pay gap reporting,  
which is to help employers identify the gaps in their organisations, take action to 
close their gender pay gap and to ensure that women have the same opportunities 
as men to fulfil their potential in the workplace. 

Within this report, we have provided an overview of the steps we have already 
taken as well as the steps we plan to take in the coming few years which I hope you 
will find interesting and informative.   

I would also like to take this opportunity to reiterate that having a gender pay gap 
does not imply unequal pay. We use a nationally recognised job evaluation scheme 
to fairly assess the value and worth of council jobs in relation to others in the 
organisation and set the grade and pay. This allows us to establish a fair and 
rational pay structure and meet our commitment to equal pay. Our gender pay 
gap – as you will read more about – is more reflective of our slightly uneven 
distribution of genders through our different organisational levels.   

I am proud of the successes we have achieved and our gender pay gap reflects well 
when compared to other public sector bodies.  We cannot be complacent however  
- we continue to strive for our workforce to better reflect the communities we 
serve.

Steve Munn 
Director of Human Resources
Oxfordshire County Council

Gender pay gap report 2018UNDERSTANDING OUR GENDER PAY GAP

3

HOW THE FIGURES ARE CALCULATED

We have used pay data from 4,447 of our staff from all levels of the organisation to calculate our gender pay gap figures.

HOW IS THE MEDIAN GENDER PAY GAP CALCULATED?
The median gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of pay for men and women.

To work this out, we arrange the hourly pay rates of our male employees on full-pay from highest to lowest and find the hourly pay rate in the middle of the 
range. We then do the same for our female employees.

We subtract the median hourly pay rate for women from the median hourly pay rate for men, divide the result by the median hourly pay rate for men and 
multiply by 100.

HOW IS THE MEAN GENDER PAY GAP CALCULATED?
The mean gender pay gap is the difference between the average of pay for men and women.

We start by working out the mean hourly pay rate for men – we add together the hourly pay rates of all male employees on full-pay and divide this figure by 
the number of male full-pay employees. We then do the same for our female employees.

We subtract the mean hourly pay rate for women from the mean hourly pay rate for men; divide the result by the mean hourly pay rate for men, and multiply 
the result by 100.

HOW ARE PAY QUARTILES CALCULATED?
Quartiles are calculated by listing the rates of pay for each of our employees from highest to lowest, splitting the list into four equal sized groups and working 
out the percentage of male and females in each group.

Gender pay gap report 2018OUR GENDER PAY GAP

WHAT WE KNOW

All public sector employers are required to publish information 
about their gender pay gaps by 31 March 2018. This information is 
based on the snapshot date of 31 March 2017.  

On 31 March 2017, there were 4,477 employees who met the 
definition of ‘full-pay relevant employee’ set out by government 
for the purposes of gender pay gap reporting.  

64.4 per cent of these were female and 35.6 per cent were male 
with 47.1 per cent working part-time and 52.9 per cent working 
full-time. 

PAY - HOURLY RATE

Difference between men and women

Our mean gender pay gap

3.5% 
Our median gender pay gap  0.1% 

PROPORTION OF MALES AND FEMALES IN EACH 
QUARTILE PAY BAND

4

Lower quartile

Lower middle 

Upper middle 

Upper quartile

quartile

41.5%
58.5%

quartile

36.7%
63.3%

34.4%
65.6%

29.6%
70.4%

Female

Male

BONUS PAY

Our mean bonus gender pay gap 

Our median bonus gender pay gap 

Our proportion of males receiving a 
bonus payment

Our proportion of females receiving 
a bonus payment

0%

Gender pay gap report 20185

CURRENT INITIATIVES

OUR COMMITMENT

We are committed to the principles of equality, 
diversity, fairness and inclusion. 

People matter and our approach to people 
management should not put any group at a 
disadvantage. Regardless of identity or background, 
everyone deserves to be able to develop their skills 
and talents to meet their full potential, work in a 
safe, supportive and inclusive environment, be fairly 
rewarded and recognised for the work they do and 
have the opportunity to have their say on matters that 
affect them. 

We are also commited to achieving a diverse 
workforce that fully reflects our community.

We have a number of initiatives in place to support 
our aims and our staff - here are just a few of them 
(see next page).

Gender pay gap report 20186

CURRENT INITIATIVES

AGILE WORKING

We believe that people work more effectively when they are able to strike a healthy 
balance between their work responsibilities and other aspects of their lives.  

As well as optimising our performance, agile working has an important impact on our 
ability to recruit and retain diverse talent and organise staff time to suit customer 
needs and service priorities.  

Council managers will consider all requests for flexible working, ensuring that the 
needs and priorities of the organisation can be met before agreeing to any new 
arrangements.  

Some council roles, such as uniformed fire-fighters, teachers and shift workers, are 
limited in their flexibility but managers will work with employees to try and identify 
solutions, where possible, that suit both the individual and the organisation.  

For us, agile working is about where and when people work and how they carry out 
their activities, including:  

• giving employees the right equipment and working environment to suit their role 
and service  
• working in a more flexible way that makes best use of staff time, buildings, and 
resources  
• taking advantage of changes in technology and working styles to work ever more 
innovatively, flexibly and efficiently  

 

Gender pay gap report 20187

CURRENT INITIATIVES

FIRE TASTER DAYS

Being a firefighter is a role women generally don’t 
consider.  

We aim to run regular taster days for women where they 
can meet female firefighters who talk about what life as 
a firefighter is like for them, and answer any questions 
people may have.  

The taster days also offer the opportunity to try out the 
physical assessments such as ladder climbing and putting 
on breathing apparatus to address concerns women may 
have that they aren’t strong or fit enough. Our firefighters 
are also on hand to offer advice or guidance on how to 
build up strength and fitness. 

JOB SHARE

As an Equal Opportunities employer, we are committed to enabling jobs to be available to people wishing to job share so that the skills of those not able to 
work full-time may be fully utilised.  

All full-time posts are deemed to be potentially open to job sharing unless an exemption has been agreed and job advertisements will make this clear.  

When recruitment takes place to a vacant post and job sharers are among the candidates, the general principle of appointing the best person for the job 
should apply. 

When an application is received from an individual who wishes to job share but who is applying without a partner, the application should be assessed in 
the same way as applications from other candidates. If in the opinion of the selection panel he or she is the best candidate, a part-time appointment would 
normally be offered and the remaining hours advertised as a job share vacancy.

Gender pay gap report 2018CASE STUDY

A FOCUS ON WOMEN IN OUR ORGANISATION

8

RIKKE HANSEN, SERVICE MANAGER, HIGHWAYS, TRANSPORT AND WASTE
I joined Oxfordshire County Council five years ago as a temp, working as a 
support officer on major programmes. That gave me the opportunity to work 
across a variety of service areas and build connections across the organisation, 
which eventually led to my latest role as Service Manager within highways. 

With a background in communications and change management, this role 
represents a real step change for me, both in level of seniority and area of 
expertise. 

I’m incredibly proud to have got to this point in my career relatively fast but I 
also know that I wouldn’t be where I am today had it not been for my manager 
and mentor being willing to take a risk on bringing in someone with a very 
different profile to what is traditionally seen in highways – and the council 
enabling that type of career change. 

Gender pay gap report 2018CASE STUDY

A FOCUS ON WOMEN IN OUR ORGANISATION

9

MICHELLE PLOWMAN, PRINCIPAL ENGINEER
I started my Technical Highways apprenticeship at Oxfordshire County Council in 
September 2007. After completing my two year apprenticeship, I have climbed the 
career ladder rapidly. 

First I secured a full time job as a Technician, gaining experience in the Structures and 
Developer Schemes teams while continuing my education. 

In 2010, I applied for and secured an Assistant Engineer post in the Road Agreements 
Team - I have remained in this team and have been fortunate enough to become a 
Senior Engineer and now Principal Engineer. I have been able to study and develop 
throughout my employment at the council.  

Only 10 years into my career, I have qualifications in engineering alongside work 
and life experience; this has allowed me to get to where I am now: managing a team 
that looks after the council’s function of approving and adopting new roads built by 
external developers. 

I am involved in major developments happening in Oxfordshire such as the Eco Town, 
Bicester Village and Westgate. My job is interesting and constantly challenging, I am 
lucky enough to work with fantastic individuals and am thankful to all who have 
supported me or given me opportunities. 

Gender pay gap report 201810

EQUALITY POLICY 2018 – 2021 

OVERVIEW

We recognise the contribution every employee makes and we value 
individual differences.

As a public sector employer, we have three specific responsibilities under 
the Public Sector Equality Duty. This includes preparing and publishing an 
Equality Policy with specific, measurable objectives.  

The full policy can be accessed on our public site, but here is an overview of 
the objectives and actions we have set ourselves for 2018-2021.

OBJECTIVES

Our commitment to equality is not limited to gender, and while we have set 
ourselves the objective to improve the balance of gender in our workforce, 
particularly in services where a group is under-represented, we are also 
committed to: 

• increasing the representation of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic 
employees in the workforce
• increasing the number of people under 25 employed in our workforce
• improving how we support our employees with disabilities so they 
can be fully involved in the workplace, access career development 
opportunities and be successful at work 

Gender pay gap report 2018EQUALITY POLICY 2018 – 2021 

ACTIONS

We aim to achieve these objectives by (among others): 

• developing specific action plans for the different directorates 
• increasing awareness of unconscious bias 
• understanding what appeals to younger applicants 
• understanding what appeals to BAME applicants 
• exploring different ways of advertising roles 
• identifying barriers to staff in our recruitment processes 
• increasing awareness of the support available to disabled staff

11

Gender pay gap report 2018Oxfordshire County Council
County Hall, New Road, Oxford, OX1 1ND

www.oxfordshire.gov.uk

TITLE