BRITISH AIRWAYS ~ 

MAINTENANCE CARDIFF 

G E N D E R   PAY   G A P  

REPORT 2017 

British Airways Maintenance Cardiff (BAMC) Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of British Airways Plc and 
 
employs 588* people. The principle activity of the company is the maintenance of long haul Boeing 
 
aircraft. This activity takes place in a dedicated facility in South Wales. 

 
 

 

“At British Airways Maintenance 
 
Cardiff people are at the heart of our 
 
business and we place value on the 
 
contribution they make. We are fully 
 
committed to creating a working 
 
environment that promotes inclusion 
 
and diversity so our colleagues can 
 
fulfil their potential and contribute to 
 
the success of the business.” 
 

Jason Mahoney - Director,  
British Airways Maintenance Cardiff Ltd 

 
At BAMC, we have a median gender pay gap of 20% and a 
mean gender pay gap of 14% and we are working hard to 
 
close this gap. 

 

 

 

 

BAMC does not have a bonus gap to report as no bonuses 
 
were awarded to either male or female employees in the 
 
period between April 6, 2016 and April 5, 2017. 
 

PAY AND BONUS DIFFERENCES 

Hourly pay difference 
Bonus pay difference 

Mean 
14% 
0% 

Median 

20% 
0% 

,) 

CAUSES OF THE GENDER PAY GAP 

The airline industry has traditionally been male dominated and so has the engineering sector within it. The 
 
majority of BAMC’s workforce is employed in engineering roles and, as it has typically been difficult to attract 
 
women into these roles, BAMC’s current workforce consists predominantly of male employees, and this is 
 
the main reason for the mean pay difference. We are taking active steps to encourage more women into 
 
our workforce. For the majority of our colleagues, salaries are agreed collectively with unions and we are 
 
therefore confident that there is complete gender neutrality within our grades. 

 
PAY QUARTILES 
Given that only six per cent of BAMC’s workforce are women, the gender distribution across the four 
equal quartiles shows that there is a slight under-representation of women in senior highly paid roles 
and an over-representation of women in the lowest paid roles. While this is a driver for the difference 
in pay between men and women, it is fairly reflective of the overall make up of our workforce, which 
is male dominated. 

* as reported on 5 April 2017 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 1 

BRITISH AIRWAYS ~ 

MAINTENANCE CARDIFF 

PROPORTION OF WOMEN AND MEN IN EACH PAY QUARTILE 

13% F 

4% F 

5% F 

3% F 

87% 
M 

96% 
M 

95% 
M 

97% 
M 

Lowest quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Highest quartile 

HOW WE ARE ADDRESSING THESE DIFFERENCES 
•  We are committed to building a more diverse and inclusive workforce. In particular, we are eager 
 
to encourage more women into engineering positions, which make up the majority of the roles at 
BAMC. 

•  We have implemented a number of community outreach initiatives with local schools and 
 

colleges to help promote a diverse range of opportunities. These include work experience and 
apprenticeship programmes. Through these initiatives we have seen an increase of women joining 
our scheme within the last two intakes. 

•  Gender has never been and will never be a recruitment and selection criteria for BAMC. We 
 

encourage and support flexible working and have enhanced family-friendly workplace policies in 
place. Our maternity policy is competitive and designed to ensure we attract and retain female 
employees and support them in progressing through the organisation into more senior roles. 

•  We are committed to improving the diversity of our organisation at all levels and we will continue 
 

to support progression and development across our organisation, not just for women, but for 
employees of all backgrounds. 

USEFUL TERMS: 
Equal pay is when men and women performing equal work receive equal pay, as set out in the Equality Act 2010. 
Gender pay gap refers to the difference between men’s and women’s average earnings across the organisation, 
 
expressed as a percentage of men’s earnings. 

 

We confirm that the information and data provided is accurate and in line with mandatory requirements. 

Signed 

Gender Pay Report 2017     Page 2 

