Gender Pay 
Gap Report
April 2018

We’re a business that’s based on great people. As Gleeds has grown, we’ve enjoyed the diversity 
that comes with working in new places, and with new people.

But as an industry, we’ve failed to conquer one of our biggest challenges: addressing the lack of 
female talent in construction. This imbalance, particularly at senior leadership level, has created  
a gender pay gap.

Our commitment is to build on initiatives that attract a more diverse workforce into construction. 
During last year’s Gleeds Global Challenge, 2,500 pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds 
participated in our careers workshops. 52% of students were female. 

In recent years, Gleeds has employed more women than ever before. But there is still more work 
we need to do to attract and develop women into senior management positions. 

We want Gleeds to be a place that provides fulfilling careers for everyone. Whilst we recognise 
that the gender pay gap will not be resolved overnight, we are committed to building a more 
diverse and equal workplace. 

I confirm that the information within this statement is accurate and meets the mandatory 
requirements set out in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Stuart Senior
Gleeds Executive & UK Board Director

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

I’m a firm believer in creating environments where people can thrive and do their best work. For 
me diversity of skills, experience and characteristics play a big part in this. It makes for a richer 
culture and more adaptable teams. 

Having recently joined Gleeds as People Director, I see a lot of potential in existing initiatives that 
are designed to develop future leaders and support those needing flexible working arrangements. 
But as this report highlights, there is much more we need to be doing to help close the gender 
pay gap.

As part of our diversity and inclusion agenda, my remit is to implement a clear plan to improve 
representation of women at all levels within Gleeds. 

Our hope is that by raising awareness and improving the support networks available to all women 
at Gleeds, we will also increase the number of female leaders in our business.

Above all, we want to provide every single person that works for Gleeds with a fun and  
rewarding career.

Louise Ellis
Gleeds People Director

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

What is the gender pay gap?

The gender pay gap is the difference in average female 
earnings compared to average male earnings. 

This contrasts from equal pay, which relates to the difference in 
earnings between men and women who complete the same job, 
at the same level.

Gleeds’ gender pay gap is higher than the national average of 
+18%. This is down to the lower number of females within our 
business and significantly higher proportion of men in senior roles. 

At present women represent 26% of our workforce, with men at 
74%. Of the 221 women employed within Gleeds’ UK business, 
20% have flexible working arrangements – such as part time 
hours – in comparison to 5% of men. The higher proportion of 
women employed on a part-time basis further impacts gender 
pay and bonus gaps. 

Whilst we are confident that men and women are remunerated 
equally for equivalent work, our priority is to help increase the 
number of women in senior roles at Gleeds. We also plan to invest 
more time in encouraging women into the construction industry.

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

Reporting requirements

From 4th April 2018, all organisations employing over 250 
people are required to publish an annual report on their 
gender pay gap. 

Within the Gleeds group of companies there are a number of 
business entities. Gleeds Employment Services (Bristol) and 
Gleeds Employment Services (Nottingham) are required to 
publish data under the regulations. We have also published 
figures for our UK business, which provides a full picture of our 
national position. 

Gleeds figures 

PAY GAP
This table shows the mean and median pay gap between men and women, based on hourly rates of pay and presented relative to men’s 
earnings. The median gender pay gap differs from the mean as it shows the mid-point of data, rather than the average.

Gleeds UK

Gleeds Employment Services (Bristol)

Gleeds Employment Services (Nottingham)

Mean gender pay gap

36.7% lower

Median gender pay gap

42.4% lower

39.1% lower

45.5% lower

39.8% lower

49.1% lower

BONUS GAP
This table shows the mean and median bonus gap between men and women, presented relative to men’s earnings.  
Our bonus gap is driven by the fact more men occupy senior positions, which in turn attract higher bonuses. 

Gleeds UK

Gleeds Employment Services (Bristol)

Gleeds Employment Services (Nottingham)

Mean gender bonus gap

56.6% lower

Median gender bonus gap

58.3% lower

22.8% lower

14.8% lower

Proportion receiving bonuses

Men

Women

33.4%

19.9%

24.5%

10.2%

78.6% lower

92.6% lower

33.6%

23.9%

The Government’s reporting cycle commenced on 5th April 2017, so the figures above reflect Gleeds’ position on this date.

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

Gleeds figures 

PAY QUARTILES
Pay quartiles are a way of showing the distribution of pay amongst men and women across four remuneration bands. The first quartile 
reflects the highest 25% of earners, whilst quartile four reflects the lowest 25% of earners.

Quartile 1

Quartile 2

Quartile 3

Quartile 4

GLEEDS UK

M
W

92%
8%

GLEEDS EMPLOYMENT 
SERVICES (BRISTOL)

M
W

89%
11%

GLEEDS EMPLOYMENT 
SERVICES (NOTTINGHAM)

M
W

96%
4%

M
W

84%
16%

M
W

91%
9%

M
W

86%
14%

M
W

70%
30%

M
W

77%
23%

M
W

78%
22%

M
W

51%
49%

M
W

52%
48%

M
W

47%
53%

The Government’s reporting cycle commenced on 5th April 2017, so the figures above reflect Gleeds’ position on this date.

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

Promoting diversity and inclusivity 

Construction has traditionally attracted more men than women. In recent years, the industry has made steps to improve the appeal of 
construction amongst women and other minority groups. As industry statistics show, there is still much more work for us to do. 

We are committed to creating an equal and flexible working environment, which enables people to be at their best. Our priority is to 
empower both male and female employees in progressing the career path of their choice.

To support the narrowing and eventual elimination of the gender pay gap, Gleeds makes the following commitments: 

INCREASING AWARENESS

IMPROVED SUPPORT 

MEASUREMENT & MONITORING

Schools outreach programme
Use Gleeds’ Global Challenge outreach 
programme to help improve the appeal of 
construction amongst female students 

Flexible working
Review of existing flexible working arrangements 
to better support people with primary care 
responsibilities and those returning to work

Profiling our female talent
Improving female representation at recruitment 
fairs and industry events

Employee training
Training for all staff on unconscious bias and 
anti-discrimination, with an additional focus on 
those responsible for recruitment decisions and 
leading teams

Upgrades to HR management system
Improving our ability to segment and monitor 
employee data. In-depth analysis will help 
us identify short and long term change 
opportunities

Increasing direct recruitment
Maintaining direct control over the advertising 
process, ensuring that vacancies reach as 
diverse a population as possible

Supporting industry-wide campaigns
Continue to offer support to diversity and 
inclusion campaigns led by professional 
institutions and industry bodies

Mentoring and coaching
Increase the accessibility of female role models 
for discussion and practical guidance on  
career progression

Recruitment partner review
Work with recruitment partners to assess their 
candidate identification process and secure 
balanced candidate shortlists

Gleeds proudly supports:    #seetheelephant  |  Women in Property  |  International Women’s Day

Gleeds | Gender Pay Gap Report | April 2018

