 
 

 
 

 
 
 
As part of our obligations under the gender pay gap legislation, we present our Gender Pay statistics. These statistics 
have been uploaded to the Government portal and the data is presented as at 5 April 2017. 

 

Figure 

 

 

Mean Gender Pay Gap   13.0% 

Shows  that  the  average  male  employee  hourly  rate  is  13.0%  higher  than 
female employees. 

Median Gender Pay 
Gap 

2.6% 

Shows  that  the  median  male  employee  hourly  rate  is  2.6%  higher  than 
female employees. 

Mean Bonus Gender 
Pay Gap  

-15.1% 

The minus % figure shows that when calculating the average male employee 
bonus payment versus female employee, female bonus payments are higher. 

Median Bonus Gender 
Pay Gap  

-20.3% 

The minus % figure shows that when calculating the median male employee 
bonus payment versus female employee, average female bonus payments 
are higher. 

Proportion of Males 
Receiving Bonus  

Proportion of Females 
Receiving Bonus  

15.3% 

Shows the percentage of male employees receiving bonus. 

5.7% 

Shows the percentage of female employees receiving bonus. 

Proportion of Male / Female employees in each Quartile 

 

 

Upper 

Upper Middle 
Lower Middle 

Lower 

Male 
30% 
17% 
17% 
17% 

 

Female 

70% 
83% 
83% 
83% 

The retail sector retail can offer a number of flexible working opportunities which may suit  certain individuals in 
differing ways. Whilst conducting the Gender Pay analysis,  the Company found no evidence of where any pay or 
bonus was paid proportionately higher to any male employee; even discovering that bonus pay was higher in female 
employees. Analysis further confirmed that bonus pay is awarded on objective achievements only and the number of 
female employees in Management roles in our stores, is higher than male employees.  
 
James Convenience Retail Limited is committed to promoting itself as an equal opportunity employer and will provide 
the  same  level  of  opportunity  to  any  applicant  or  employee  of  the  Company;  irrespective  of  any  personal 
characteristics. The Company is continuously working to find ways of improving its Gender Pay statistics. 
 
I declare the above data is accurate as of 5 April 2017. 
Mark Titterton – James Convenience Retail, Chief Executive 
22 March 2018 

