 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Surrey County Council 

Gender Pay Gap Report  

                              March 2017 Data 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

1 

Contents 

1.  Background   

 

2.  Data being reported on  

3.  Organisational Context 

4.  Workforce Profile 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.  Mandatory Gender Pay Gap Data for SCC 

 

6.  Gender Pay Gap Analysis   

 

7.  Recent Changes 

 

8.  Future plans   

 

9.  Written statement 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

            

             

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  3  

  3 

  4 

  4 

  5 

  6 

   

  7 

 

 

  7 

  7 

2 

 

1.  Background 
 

Under The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, 
employers with 250 or more employees, in England, Wales and Scotland are required 
to publish their overall mean and median gender pay gaps each year.  

The gender pay gap is different to equal pay.  Equal pay relates to men and women 
receiving equal pay for equal work. The gender pay gap is defined as the difference 
between the median (actual mid-point) or mean (average) basic annual earnings of men 
and women expressed as a percentage of the median or mean basic annual earning. 
See the formula for calculation Gender Pay Gap calculation below.  

 

 

 

 

 

Hourly Rate (Men) – Hourly rate (Women) 

Gender Pay Gap =     --------------------------------------------------------  X 100 

 

 

 

               Hourly Rate (Men) 

Mean    

Average (sum of hourly rates / number of employees) 

Median  

Middle value of an ordered set of data 

 

 

2.  Data being reported on  

 

 
Mean gender pay gap 

 
Median gender pay gap 

 
Quartile pay bands 

 
Mean bonus gap 

 
Median bonus gap 

 
Bonus proportion 

The difference between the mean hourly rate of pay of male full-pay 
relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant employee. 
 
The difference between the median hourly rate of male full-pay 
relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant employee. 
 
The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant employees in the 
lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands. 
 
The difference between the mean bonus pay paid to male relevant 
employees and that paid to female relevant employees. 
 
The difference between the median bonus pay paid to male relevant 
employees and that paid to female relevant employees. 
 
The proportions of male and female relevant employees who were 
paid bonus pay during the relevant period. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3 

3.  Organisational context  

SCC is committed to being a fair and inclusive employer delivering inclusive services that 
meet the needs of Surrey's communities.  

We offer a reward package which includes a good pension scheme, excellent training and 
development, flexible working, that helps to support family life.   
 
The council expects its approach to pay and reward, to take account of any nationally 
negotiated local government provisions, as well as the particular circumstances of Surrey. 
This includes employment market factors. All employees are remunerated in accordance 
with the pay and grading structures and grading arrangements. 
 
SCC employs staff in the following seven directorates: 

  Adult Social Care and Public Health 
  Chief Executive's Office  
  Children Schools and Families 
  Customer & Communities  
  Environment and Infrastructure 
  Business Services  
  Legal, Democratic and Cultural Services  

 

The pay and conditions of service for most SCC employees are negotiated locally.  
However, the Council also employs a number of staff who are not on locally negotiated 
terms (e.g. Educational Psychologists on national terms or employees who have 
transferred from other organisations under TUPE arrangements). 
 
4.  Workforce Profile 

The gender pay gap analysis is based on the concept of “employments”. This refers to 
individual contracts of employment, regardless of the number of contractual hours or the 
number of employment contracts between an employee and the Council. For instance, an 
employee working to a standard full time contract will be considered as having one 
employment, whereas another employee with two part time contracts will be considered as 
having two.  

 
The below table shows the number of male and female employments by terms and 
conditions of service on 31st March 2017. 

 

Terms and Conditions 

Female 

Employments 

Male 

Total 

Employments 

Employments 

Surrey Pay Employees 

7407 

National 

TUPE 

Other  

Total 

 

247 

30 

682 

8366 

2196 

656 

14 

179 

3045 

9603 

903 

44 

861 

11411 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 

 

5.  Mandatory Gender Pay Gap data for SCC  
 

Table 1 – Mean and median gender pay gap 

Gender 

Mean Hourly 

Mean Gender  

Median 

Median Gender  

Male 
Female 

 

Rate 
£18.15 
£15.01 

Pay Gap 

Hourly Rate 

Pay Gap 

17.30% 

£15.51 
£13.23 

14.74% 

Table 2 - Quartile Pay Bands 

Gender 

Lower 

Lower Middle 

Upper Middle 

Upper 

Quartile % 

Quartile % 

Quartile % 

Quartile % 

Female 

Male 

 

84.08 

15.92 

80.23 

19.77 

61.39 

38.61 

67.19 

32.81 

Table 3 - Mean and Median Bonus* Gap 
 

 

Female 

Male 

% difference gap 
between male 
and female  

£625.13 

£714.90 

12.56% 

£595.71 

£677.88 

12.12% 

Mean bonus payment 

Median bonus payment 

 

Table 4 - Bonus proportions 

 

Total Employments in receipt of bonus payment 

Bonus Proportion 

 

Female 

413 

Male 

146 

4.81% 

4.77% 

* Bonus Payments for SCC include Non-Consolidated Payment (NCP) which is based on 
achieving an “exceptional” appraisal rating and Long Service Award payment of £150 for  
25 years of service and £200 for 40 years of service. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

 

6.  Gender Pay Gap Analysis 

Table 1 indicates that the median gender pay gap at SCC is 14.74 per cent and the mean 
gender pay gap is 17.30 per cent. This compares with the national statistics as published in 
the Annual Survey of Hours and Earning (by the Office for National Statistic for the Public 
Sector in the UK 2017), which indicates a national median pay gap of 19.4 per cent and 
mean pay gap of 17.7 per cent.  

SCC recognises that there is a gender pay gap. Analysis of our pay data shows that the 
pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or equivalent 
work. The difference in mean and median pay can be attributed to the patterns and types of 
work undertaken by men and women working for SCC.  
 
Currently approximately 73 per cent of the workforce are women. The average age of a 
Surrey employee is 46. Currently, approximately 80 per cent of all new applicants at SCC 
are women.  
 
The quartile pay bands in table 2 indicates that there is a larger concentration of female 
employees in the lower two quartiles. A significant proportion of which are part-time frontline 
jobs, that includes service delivery in areas such as personal care, catering and cleaning 
which are lower graded roles. 
 
Evidence suggests that women aged 45 to 54 are more than twice as likely as other carers 
to have reduced working hours, as a result of caring responsibilities1. One in four women 
aged 50-64 has caring responsibilities, for older or disabled loved ones2.  Historically, there 
is still a legacy of gender occupational segregation, where women still predominantly apply 
for and occupy social care roles; this is slowly changing. This helps understand the gender 
distribution in SCC’s employment of staff. 
 
The difference between male and female mean and median bonus payments, see table 3, 
is approximately 12 per cent. This is influenced by a higher proportion of female employees 
employed on lower grade as the bonus payment is worked out as a percentage of earnings.  

As table 4 shows the proportion of men and women receiving bonus payment is very 
similar.  This is in line with the organisational expectations that 5 per cent of staff will qualify 
for a bonus payment for exceptional performance.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                                                           
1 Carers UK (2015) Facts about Carers 
2 Census 2011 

 

6 

7.  Recent Changes  

  SCC pay policy is gender neutral, ensuring that men and women receive equal pay 

for work of equal value. The council's pay and grading structure is underpinned by 
Hay Job Evaluation methodology which supports this approach.  

  The council’s reward policy states that all new appointments should be appointed to 

 

the minimum pay point for their role, unless a business supports a higher starting 
salary.  This applies equally to male and female applicants. 
In 2016 the council has introduced a link between pay and performance.  This is 
supported by an appraisal moderation process which provides a fair and equitable 
assessment of all objectives and performance levels for individuals across the 
service, irrespective of gender. This process helps share good practice and 
increases the quality of performance management. 

  The council offers flexible working arrangements at all grade levels, including job share, 

part time working and shared parental leave.  These family friendly policies help to 
support development and retention of all staff by providing support with work/life balance. 

  Training opportunities are widely available to all staff. There is a dedicated anti-

discrimination policy and multiple anti-discrimination training is provided. 

  Currently over 50% of the leadership of the organisation are women. 

 

8. 

Future Plans 

SCC is committed to minimising the gender pay gap within the organisation by: 

  Helping women progress in their careers and achieve their full potential through the 
sponsored qualifications e.g. Leadership Development Program. The launch of job 
families provide a clear pathway for training and development for all staff. 

  Encouraging flexibility, and challenging assumptions about traditional ways of 

working and occupations, taking account of the needs of the work, customers and 
employees. 

  Reviewing policies, procedures and guidelines to ensure they meet legislative 

requirements and any discrimination is eliminated. 

9.  Written Statement 
 

SCC confirms that the data in this report has been calculated according to the requirements 
of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

 

7 

