Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Brunel University London – Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Brunel University London has the privilege of being one of the most 
diverse universities in the UK. We are committed to ensuring that all of 
our staff and students reach their full potential.

For this reason, we welcome the new requirement for all UK 
organisations employing 250 people or more to publish statutory 
calculations showing the pay gap between male and female employees. 
We regard publishing and the transparency it brings as a way of driving 
positive change.

Just over half of our workforce is female and women are represented at 
all levels of the university; 40% of our executives are women.

Our employee engagement survey tells us that the vast majority of our 
colleagues feel that we are committed to equality of opportunity and 
act fairly with regards to recruitment, career progression and promotion.

However our gender pay gap figure of 20% tells us that we need to do 
more to help women progress. We will continue to address inequality 
and pursue our equality and diversity agenda.

The percentage of male 
and female employees

48% male 52% female

40%

The percentage of 
our executives that 
are women

Key data

% male/female employees

Median gender pay gap

Mean gender pay gap

Median bonus pay gap

Mean bonus pay gap

% males/females receiving a bonus 
payment

Upper quartile* (male/female %)

Upper middle quartile (male/female %)

Lower middle quartile (male/female %)

Lower quartile (male/female %)

48% male 
52% female

23.6%

20.0%

33.3%

47.3%

2.8% males 
2.8% females

62.3% male 
37.7% female

51.2% male 
48.8% female

42.2% male 
57.8% female

37.1% male 
62.9% female

Gender pay gap
•  The gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay between 
women and men. It does not measure equal pay, which relates to 
what women and men are paid for the same or similar jobs or work 
of equal value.

Mean and median gender pay gap
•  The mean gender pay gap is the difference in average hourly rates 
of pay for all men and all women, expressed as a percentage of the 
average hourly rate for men.

•  The median gender pay gap shows the difference between the 
median (middle) value of hourly pay rates (when ordered from 
lowest to highest) for all men in an organisation, and all women, 
expressed as a percentage of the median hourly rate for men.

20% mean gender pay gap – 
based on hourly rate

23.6% median gender pay 
gap – based on hourly rate

£26.84

£21.46

£23.81

£18.19

Mean and median bonus pay gap
•  The mean gender bonus gap is the difference between the average 

bonuses received by men and by women, expressed as a percentage 
of the average bonus for men.

•  The median gender bonus gap is the difference between the median 

(middle) value of bonuses (when ordered from lowest to highest) 
received by men and by women, expressed as a percentage of the 
average bonus for men.

47.3% mean bonus 
gender pay gap

£2,071.71

£1,092.11

33.3% median bonus 
gender pay gap

The proportion of men 
and women receiving a 
bonus payment

£750.00

£500.00

2.8%

2.8%

1,272

1,368

Why do we have a gap?

The principal reasons for our gender pay gap are:

•  we have a higher proportion of women in non-academic support 

roles

•  we have a higher proportion of men in academic related roles
•  we have fewer women than men in our senior and management roles

Our gender pay gap is higher than national UK (18.1%) and the wider 
higher education sector (14.1%).

Our pay gap reflects that as a university with a bias towards 
engineering, we have more men in senior academic roles. This is 
unfortunately reflective of societal norms and is something that we 
actively seek to address in both our staff and student populations.

Our support and professional staff tend to be long serving and our 
workforce is stable. This has an impact upon progression for non-
academic roles.

These show us that we need to do more to break down barriers by 
delivering on the key objectives of our Equality and Diversity Strategy 
2015-2020. If we do this our gender pay gap will close.

We do not routinely pay bonuses. Our data shows that the proportion 
of men and women receiving bonuses whilst low is equitable. Our bonus 
gap is driven by an historic role related bonus plan. This is already in the 
process of being reviewed. When data for this plan is excluded from the 
gender bonus gap calculations, our mean bonus gap is zero.

What action are we taking?

We have had an Equality and Diversity Strategy in place since 2015. We 
report and publish Staff and Student equality data annually. Our vision 
places equality and diversity at the heart of all we do and inspires us to 
excel by working together to maximise the benefits of our diversity.

Our strategic agenda covers key areas of leadership, learning, staff 
experience and governance to encompass short term action plans and 
long term cultural change.

We aim to mainstream equality and diversity in all staff related practices 
including recruitment, promotion, career development, retention, 
reward, procurement and all human resources policies and processes:

•  We will continue to support the national Aurora and Springboard 
leadership programmes for women in Higher Education. We will 
champion women’s development through female only promotion 
workshops for academic staff.

•  We will have gender balanced short-lists for senior roles
•  We will increase transparency in reward through a reward and 

recognition strategy, communications and review of reward delivery.

•  We will renew and increase our focus on staff and student diversity & 
inclusion since we were awarded the Athena SWAN institutional level 
Bronze Award in 2017.

More widely as a university we can have a positive impact upon society 
and we will continue to support in the ‘Women in Engineering’ early 
careers mentoring scheme and ‘Girls who Code’ initiatives.

We have an ambitious agenda but by working together we can ensure 
that the University’s core values become the lived experiences of each 
and every member of Brunel’s community.

As Director of HR of Brunel University London I am authorised to 
confirm that the information published in this report, in accordance with 
regulation 2 of the The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 is correct. Jane Drysdale

DPS_2565 0318

