 

 

 
 
 
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
This year, for the first time UK companies, with over 250 staff, have to report on their gender pay 
gap. On the qualifying date Southern Academy trust did not have 250 employees but in the 
interests of transparency we are publishing our gender pay gap report.  
 
The gender pay gap measures the difference between the average earnings of all male and female 
employees, irrespective of their role or seniority. This is different to equal pay, which is about 
ensuring that everyone doing the same job receives the same pay for that work.  
 
At Southern Academy Trust we want to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, ethnicity, 
disability or background has an equal opportunity to succeed.  
 
We want to employ the best people for the job and we see the gender pay gap report as one way 
in which we can identify ways to improve our organisation.  
 
Mean and Median Pay Gap 
 
At 28.3% our mean gap is significantly above the national mean gap of 17.3% for all employees 
and our median gap of 42.5% is well above the national gap of 18.1% 
 
 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 2017

Median Gender Pay Gap 

2017

50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

National

Southern

National

Southern

 

30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%

 
 
 
 
 

 

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

National Gender Bonus Gap 
 
Nationally companies pay bonuses to staff with a mean gap of 17.3% and a Median gap of 18.1%.  
 
At Southern Academy Trust we do not pay bonuses. We feel that it is important to be transparent 
about what people will be paid, upfront, and not rely on a bonus scheme that can be very 
subjectively applied.  
 
Percentage of Staff Employed in Each Quartile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For transparency we are also presenting our mean pay in each quartile 
 

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

10%

90%

38%

62%

Male %
Female %

20%

80%

23%

77%

Male %
Female %

Male %
Female %

Male %
Female %

 

 

Quartile 
Upper Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile 
Lower Middle Quartile 
Lower Quartile 

 male  
 £       28.73  
 £       15.98  
 £         9.39  
 £         8.02  

 female  
 £       24.85  
 £       14.94  
 £         9.10  
 £         7.81  

 

Findings 
 
Our mean and median pay gap are above those of all companies nationally. We have analysed the 
structure of the workforce and the pay scales that we apply to differing types of work. We have 
established the following: 
 
All our workforce are paid on pay scales which were nationally determined and we apply these 
without taking account of gender. Recruitment to posts is gender neutral. However to address 

 

 

better gender balance we will seek to create gender balanced shortlists for all posts where 
possible.   
 
In each quartile the balance of roles undertaken is broadly similar, with a wide mix of teaching and 
non-teaching roles in the upper 2 quartiles in particular. We will review the progression and pay 
scales of all staff in the light of this report to look to narrow the gap in future reports.  
 
We would like to support more women moving into senior positions within the organisation where 
vacancies arise. 
 
We would like to further support women returning to the workforce and will review the flexible 
working provisions available to our staff. We will also look for way to encourage fathers to 
consider flexible working arrangements.  
 
ACTION PLAN 
The trustees of Southern Academy Trust are committed to taking action to close the gender pay 
that exists in our organisation. We have evaluated and considered the areas that are potentially 
contributing to the gender pay gap and have, as a result created an action plan to tackle this. 
The areas we will address are: 
Recruitment and Selection 
The Trust wishes to ensure that it is getting the best possible person for the job when advertising a 
role. We are adapting our mind set in advertising our jobs. Our Recruitment and Selection Policy 
has been updated to ensure that we advertise all roles to with the opportunity to ‘job share’. We 
hope that this encourages potential applicants to apply for our jobs, who may have felt they can’t 
commit to a full-time position or a position with a certain level of responsibility, due to other 
commitments. We hope that this action will help to address the gap in the top quartile of our data. 
As an organisation we have become aware of the potential for recruiters in any organisation to 
hold an unconscious bias. We are taking action to adapt the way we collect and present 
applications to those involved in the recruiting process to ensure, where possible, the protected 
characteristics of candidates is unknown at the short listing stage. 
Lastly, we intend to carryout ‘unconscious bias’ training with any person involved in recruitment, 
but also those involved in performance management who may sanction salary increases. 
Job Evaluations for Support Staff 
 Southern Academy Trust has historically followed the Dorset Green Book Pay Scale. These pay 
scales are based on job evaluations carried out by Dorset County Council in consultation with 
various stakeholders such as unions. The Trust will investigate whether there is a bias in the 
evaluation of traditionally male roles vs female roles. There may potentially be an impact on the 
lower middle quartile of the data if there is found to be a bias in this area. 
CPD Opportunities 

 

 

The Trust intends to monitor its CPD spending to ensure that women are being given equal access 
to funding and opportunities, particularly with regards to breaking into leadership roles. The Trust 
also intends to encourage females to consider being developed to progress into roles that are seen 
as traditionally ‘male roles’. 
Mentoring Programme 
Southern Academy Trust understands that women face many challenges in breaking through the 
"glass ceiling" and therefore will offer all of its female employees the opportunity, where possible, 
to be paired with a female in a similar role to one they are aspiring to so they can meet 
periodically to mentor and advise our employees on how to progress in their careers. 
Southern Academy Trust has made closing the gender pay gap, one of its equality objectives. We 
believe it is imperative that we promote equality in our policies and procedures towards female 
employees in our schools, to be an example to the many pupils we are responsible for informing 
and educating. 
 
“We must raise both the ceiling and the floor.” Sheryl Sandberg 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

