Wales & West Utilities 
Our Gender
Pay Gap Report

Gender pay 

gap and equal pay 

The gender pay gap is the difference 
in the average pay between men and 

women. This is not the same as equal pay. 
Equal pay is the right for men and women 
to be paid the same for doing the same 
work, or work of equal value. We have 
clear job profiles and a well-established 
pay structure so what a colleague earns 

 is based on their job and our 
pay structure, and is in no way 

affected by their gender.  

 ● Cheltenham

Introduction
At Wales & West Utilities it is our ambition to be 
trusted and valued by the millions of people we 
serve every day. The only way we can do this is to 
put people at the heart of everything we do – be they 
colleagues or customers.  
So it’s important that our colleagues are representative of the 
communities we serve. And while our industry has been traditionally perceived 
as a male-dominated one, we’ve made good progress in promoting diversity. 
In 2017, 17% of our colleagues were female, while women make up 22% of 
apprentices and graduates recruited since 2005. 
We employ more than 1,300 colleagues from Wrexham to Redruth. Our  
values-based company culture, supported by our inclusive and ethical approach 
to business, as well as our well defined colleague development programmes, 
helps all our colleagues feel like they belong and can make the most of their 
potential, irrespective of their gender, age, race, disability or sexual orientation. 
While we are proud of the progress we have made since we started operations 
in 2005, we’re working hard to help all our colleagues meet their potential – 
and continue to make Wales & West Utilities a great place to work. 

Sarah Hopkins
People & Engagement Director

Graham Edwards
Chief Executive

Our Gender Pay Gap Report
In April 2017 the government introduced gender pay reporting for all employers 
with more than 250 employees. This report shows the differences in average pay 
and the differences in average bonus between our male and female colleagues.

It covers:
1  The gender make-up of our team
2  What’s our gender pay and bonus gap?
3  Our pay distribution
4  What’s causing our gender pay and bonus 

gap – and what are we doing about it?

1  The gender make-up 

of our team

Overall                 Male 83%  

Female 17%

Operational             Male 90% 

Female 10%

Back office              Male 59% 

Female 41%

These figures are accurate as of April 1 
2017. While the gas industry remains a male 
dominated one, we are pleased to report that 
we’re making good progress on increasing the 
diversity of our workforce. This is apparent when 
looking at the gender make-up of colleagues 
recruited since Wales & West Utilities started 
operations in 2005. Females have made up 
22% of our new recruits since then. 

2  What’s our gender 
pay and bonus gap?

Gender pay gap

Mean gender pay gap
Median gender pay gap

10%

-4%

What’s included in our hourly pay?
Hourly pay includes basic pay, car allowances, 
shift pay and stand-by allowances.

The gender pay gap shows the difference in 
average pay between men and women who 
work at Wales & West Utilities in April 2017. It 
is worked out in two ways.

➜ The mean adds up all salaries and 

divides the result by the number of men 
and women respectively. We report the 
percentage difference. 

➜ The median lists all male and female 
salaries in numerical order and is the 
respective middle numbers. We report the 
percentage difference. 

Using two different types of average gives a 
more balanced overview of the gender pay 
gap and removes the influence of high and 
low pay, giving a fair assessment of what male 
and female colleagues earn. 

What does this show?
Our mean gender pay gap of 10% is 
significantly lower than the current national 
mean gender pay gap of 18%. This is due 
to our structured, grade based approach to 
pay, based on clear job profiles. However, we 
recognise that there is still more we can do to 
improve female representation in certain roles 
– particularly operationally.
Our median gender pay gap is -4%, and is 
driven by the number of women in middle 
management roles. 

Gender bonus gap

52%

Mean gender bonus gap

Median gender bonus gap

17%

What’s our gender bonus gap?
The gender bonus gap shows the difference 
between the average bonus received by men 
and women across Wales & West Utilities 
from April 2016 to April 2017.

Like our gender pay gap, this is worked out in 
two ways, and you can read more details on 
mean and median averages on the previous 
page.

What proportions of colleagues  
receive a bonus?

Male

Female

18%

37%

We have two types of bonus at Wales & West 
Utilities. 
➜ Colleagues within our grade based 

structure are eligible for a bonus based on 
a percentage of their salary dependent on 
their performance. 

➜ Senior colleagues and our executive 

team receive a bonus based on 
their personal performance and their 
contribution to the success of our 
business.  

Colleagues on ‘Industrial’ contracts, that 
is, those working operationally in non-
management roles, are rewarded in different 
ways. They make up a significant percentage 
of our team and are overwhelmingly male, 
which is reflected in the low proportion of 
male colleagues who receive bonuses. 

What does this show?
Our mean gender bonus gap is driven by the 
number of male colleagues we have in senior 
positions. Additionally, our executive team of 
nine currently includes only one woman. 

Our median gender bonus gap is significantly 
smaller. This reflects the significant number of 
female colleagues in administrative and middle 
management roles who receive bonuses 
and are a larger percentage of our team with 
colleagues on industrial contracts removed.  
3  Our pay distribution
The distribution of males and females across 
our pay structure is shown by calculating 
the proportions of males and females in 
four quartile pay bands. This is done by 
dividing our team into four equal parts. The 
percentage of men and women for each 
quartile is:

Lower quartile 

Male 75%        Female 25%        

Lower middle quartile  Male 93%  Female 7%   

Upper middle quartile  Male 89%  Female 11%

Upper quartile 

Male 76%      Female 24%          

This table shows that: 
➜ Female colleagues have their largest 

representation in lower quartile roles such 
as administrative and customer service.

➜ Operational management positions 

that fall in the lower middle quartile are 
overwhelmingly held by male colleagues.

➜ The upper middle quartile has more female 

representation – including office-based 
managers, but is still dominated by male 
colleagues. 

➜ The second largest representation of 

female colleagues is in the upper quartile, 
in senior management and leadership 
roles. 

CONTINUED

➜ ➜ ➜

4 What’s causing our gender 

pay and bonus gap – and 
what are we doing about it?

This issue does have its roots in wider societal 
issues, including the lack of female choice 
of STEM subjects in education and related 
careers. And while fundamental change will be 
a long process, we’re working hard to reduce 
our gender pay gap, encourage more women 
to choose the gas industry – and Wales & 
West Utilities – as a career. The progress we 
have made so far has been recognised by the 
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development 
(CIPD) Wales who commended our strategic 
approach to workforce planning and our efforts 
to increase diversity and inclusion. Additionally, 
Investors In People gave us their silver award, 
demonstrating our commitment to good people 
management - an accolade only 5% of companies 
achieve. 

When we set up Wales & West Utilities in 2005 we 
inherited a male-dominated team that had been 
neglected in terms of development and training, 
while succession planning was non-existent. 
The lack of female colleagues in operational and 
operational management roles is a legacy of this 
and is a significant influence on our gender pay gap.

Our initiatives include: 

Apprentice  

and graduate recruitment 
campaigns that include  

not only direct engagement with 

schools and colleges to raise 

awareness of the careers 

Wales & West Utilities can offer, 

Promoting 

diverse role models 

with recruitment driven by 
case studies of male and 
female colleagues from 
a diverse background, 

demonstrating the breadth 

of careers on offer at 
Wales & West Utilities

but also social media 
advertising directly 

targeted at girls

Taking part 

in media campaigns and 
initiatives to promote 
women in engineering 

including Ada Lovelace Day 

and National Women in 

Engineering Day

Generous 

family friendly policies 

including enhanced maternity 

and paternity leave, 

flexible working, a Carers Policy 

(the first for a gas network) 

and the promotion of a 
“Wellbeing Culture” which 
recognises responsibilities 

both at home and 

in work

Recruiting 

based on our business 
values has removed the 
requirement for academic 
qualifications unless strictly 

necessary, which has 

removed a significant barrier to 
employment. We believe strongly 

that if you do things 

the right way, we can teach 

you all you need 

to know

Wales & West House, Spooner Close, Celtic Springs, Coedkernew, Newport, NP10 8FZ
Visit our website: www.wwutilities.co.uk
Follow us on Twitter @wwutilities and Instagram wwutilities
Like us on Facebook at facebook.com/wwutilities

