 ENERGY WORKING FOR BRITAINHorizon  Gender Pay Gap ReportNOT PROTECTIVELY MARKEDApril 20181.  Foreword from Duncan Hawthorne, CEO:  

The importance of diversity within Horizon Nuclear Power

I’ve always believed the success of this project is driven by the talent, commitment and 
dedication of our people. Horizon should be an inspiring place to work, and we should support 
our peoples’ career ambitions if we’re to continue to attract and retain the talent we need to 
meet the company’s challenging long-term goals.
 
Historically our sector has been male-dominated and we 
have a responsibility not just to redress the balance, but 
to attract and develop the best talent possible. The two 
are one and the same. This is a long game and requires 
a dedication to promoting careers in the STEM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) industries. 
Embracing diversity and inclusion is essential to the health 
of our company and will help us develop our people to 
realise their full potential and generate new ideas. Having 
a workforce that is truly representative of all sections of 
society will be an enormous benefit to us as we build a 
world-class business that treats people fairly, as well as 
creating opportunities for future generations. 

We welcome the Government’s focus in this area and 
support the requirement to publish gender pay gap data.  
In this report we have articulated the nature of some of the 
challenges we are facing, as well as the progress we are 
making. As a leadership team we are committed to closing 
the gap. I very much look forward to reporting our progress 
in the future. 

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED2. Gender Pay Gap 
Following the 2015 general election, the Government announced its intention to fulfil a 
manifesto commitment by bringing into force a provision of the Equality Act 2010 on gender 
pay gap reporting. Subsequently, The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017 came into force on 6 April 2017.

However, the gap in both our mean pay and mean bonus, 
shows that there are actions that we can take as we move 
forward and while we don’t have an equal pay issue, we do 
need to take steps to reduce our pay gap. To remedy this, 
we need to adopt and implement a number of associated 
strategies, including a closer examination of the structure 
of our workforce and, in particular, considering what 
actions we can take to encourage and develop more women 
into senior roles. This is something we’ve been working on 
to date and, in this year alone, we have recruited two new 
female Directors into the organisation. 
We also need to take action across a range of other areas 
including a drive to attract more females into STEM subjects, 
building a robust and diverse talent pipeline, celebrating 
our female role models, and providing strong management 
support to enable women to succeed. We will continue 
to focus on opportunities for flexible working practices to 
enable our women to enjoy a good work-life balance while 
progressing their careers.

The legislation requires UK companies employing 250 or 
more employees to publish statutory calculations every 
year which identify the pay gap between their male and 
female employees. The gender pay gap gives a snapshot of 
the gender balance within an organisation, measuring the 
difference between the average earnings of all male and 
female employees, irrespective of their role or seniority.  
It is distinct from equal pay, which relates to paying males 
and females fairly for work that is similar or of equal value. 
Gender pay reflects the underlying workforce demographics 
within an organisation.
This initial report therefore is based on a “snapshot” of the 
pay of all Horizon employees as at 5 April 2017 together 
with details of annual bonus payments paid to employees 
during the period 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017. It has 
been produced in line with guidance contained within the 
Equality Act 2010.
In line with these legislative requirements, there are six 
calculations that must be reported; three based on pay and 
three based on bonus to show the difference between the 
average earnings of men and women in our organisation. 
Although our gender pay gap is broadly similar to other 
organisations within the nuclear sector, we recognise that it 
is greater than the UK average for all industries. We are keen 
therefore to focus on the aspects that drive our existing pay 
gap as this will enable us to understand and focus on what 
we need to do to improve it.
From our review we are confident that our existing gender 
pay gap is not a pay issue as our reward framework is 
gender neutral. The analysis we have undertaken to date 
shows that our pay gap is driven by the structure and 
demographics of our current workforce. Within Horizon 
currently there are a higher number of males than 
women occupying management and leadership positions 
and, correspondingly, a significantly higher percentage of 
women than men in non-specialist and non-managerial 
positions. The under-representation of women in senior 
management roles and in more highly paid areas, 
especially technical and specialist posts, is the main factor 
causing our gender pay gap.

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED3. Horizon Nuclear Power’s gender pay gap data
The data for our report was collected as at 5 April 2017. At this date our workforce consisted 
269 employees; 84 women and 185 men.

We are required to report the difference in mean and median 
pay between male and female employees. The mean is 
calculated by adding up the total amount of pay and dividing 
it by the number of individuals in the data set. The median 
represents the middle amount in the data set.
Our calculations show that we have a mean gender pay gap 
in hourly pay of 42% and a median gender pay gap in hourly 
pay of 44% (see Fig.1). This result is not inconsistent with our 
peers in the nuclear industry. 
Further analysis was completed which compared the 
number of men and women at different levels of our job 
grading structure. This confirmed that there is a significant 
predominance of men in senior job grades, which directly 
impacts the gender pay results.  
Additional analysis was completed comparing employees’ pay 
in comparable roles and job grades. The results confirmed 
that pay for men and women in similar positions is equal.
Our workforce has a current gender bias towards men,  
with broadly twice as many men as women. Also in line with, 
similar organisations within the nuclear industry sector, 
men significantly dominate both the top and upper middle 
pay quartiles. This is due to a higher ratio of men in senior 
management positions and within STEM posts. This has a 
significant impact on our gender pay gap in general, but this 
issue can be most clearly seen in our quartile percentages  
(see Fig. 2).
The predominance of men in senior positions also impacts 
our comparison figures for bonus payments. The calculations 
indicate a difference in mean bonus payments of 62% and a 
difference in median bonus payments of 39% (see Fig. 3). 
The proportion of women who received a bonus is 94.3% 
during the reference period with the proportion of men who 
received bonus is 82.4% (see Fig. 4). 

Mean bonus  
payments

Median bonus 

payments

All of our employees are eligible to a bonus but those who 
started with the company after 1 January 2016 are not included 
in the figures because their first bonus was paid in June 2017, 
which is after the 12 month period used in reporting these 
statistics. This therefore accounts for the fact that less than 
100% of employees of either gender received a bonus.

Women’s hourly rate

42%

44%

% lower Mean

% lower Median

Fig. 1

Top 
Quartile

Upper Middle 
Quartile

Lower Middle 
Quartile

Lower 
Quartile

13.4%

86.6%

22.4%

77.6%

23.9%

76.1%

64.7%

35.3%

Fig. 2

Females receiving  

a bonus

Males receiving  

a bonus

62% 
more

Fig. 3

39% 
more

94%

82%

Fig. 4

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED4. Responding to the challenge
We recognise that diversity and in this case, gender diversity is crucial to our long-term success 
and we are therefore keen to implement a range of initiatives and approaches to secure a 
diverse pool of talent for our organisation and thus enhancing diversity. 

Encouraging women and children  
in STEM
Traditionally in the nuclear industry men have predominated 
in STEM. Current UK data indicates the relatively low levels  
of female engagement within STEM occupations, where  
within such industries, women make up approximately  
15% of employees.
We run a STEM Ambassador programme whereby 
our ambassadors, including our recent graduates, are 
active throughout the year within the wider community 
participating in career events and fairs to encourage a career 
within the sector. They also present directly in schools to 
male and female students of a variety of ages. 

We annually recruit apprentices, graduates and offer 
industrial placements to students. In April 2017, our 
apprentice and graduate intake featured one fifth of female 
apprentices while two thirds of our graduates were female. 

In addition, we are also engaged in education outreach 
programme ‘Futures’; for our key nuclear sites in Wylfa 
Newydd, Isle of Anglesey, and Oldbury-on-Severn, South 
Gloucestershire. This programme is not simply aimed 
at encouraging students to take an interest in STEM 
careers but also ‘upskilling’ the surrounding communities, 
encompassing pupil engagements, career pathways, 
workshops, supporting teacher development as well as 
sponsorships and donations for materials, equipment 
and literature. In North Wales alone, since 2014 we have 
engaged over 16,000 primary and secondary school 
students, equating to over 70,000 hours of engagement. 

Hitachi Initiatives
As a company, we are part of the wider Hitachi Group and 
are also able to actively participate and engage with a 
number of Hitachi-led diversity initiatives. 

Hitachi Women’s Interactive Network 
(WIN) 
WIN promotes the exchange of ideas across the female 
workforce and provides e-learning opportunities, research, 
online connections, events, mentoring and on-going support 
to address the needs that are unique to women. Hitachi WIN 
is committed to making Hitachi an even more attractive 
place for women to work and to providing support and 
resources we believe will be helpful in supporting career 
goals and aspirations. The network is open to all employees 
in Hitachi across Europe. 

WIN vision and mission

Vision

A company and its communities enriched 
by the contribution and successes of 
women.

Mission

1.  Make Hitachi companies a more 

attractive place for women to work

2.  Provide advocacy for women within 

the company at every level

3.  Be recognised as an employer of 

choice for women

Delivery

1.  Hold quarterly learning events for  

all employees

2.  Host an annual WIN Summit for 
delegates from all Hitachi group 
companies across EMEA 

3.  Host local cross-company WIN events  

in each region

4.  Promote lively discussion and interest  

on LinkedIn 

5.  Form a key role in driving the Hitachi 

diversity agenda

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKEDHitachi Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) 
Framework
The D&I Steering Committee have also recently been 
developing a framework to share with senior management 
and employees, to highlight and engage them in the value 
and benefits of a diverse and inclusive workforce. 
The framework is characterised by appreciating and 
valuing differences and seeking to achieve a mix of people 
that reflects society today. Within this context the aim to 
develop an inclusive workforce where women feel engaged 
and enabled to work in a way that is beneficial to both the 
business and individual employees is key.
An intent, vision and aim for 2018 has been developed with 
the intention to measure progress and success via a range 
of metrics including the outputs of annual staff engagement 
surveys to assess the degree of improvement year-on-year. 
Further measures include recruitment data, the talent 
pipeline, succession and talent management metrics and 
D&I statistics. 

Women in Leadership positions
We have also sought to improve gender diversity across our 
senior leadership team and have recently appointed two 
females to senior positions in this team including Executive 
Director of People and the Director of Nuclear Operations, 
responsible for leading operations at our Wylfa Newydd Site.

Policies and Procedures
Our Equality Policy sets out our aspiration to create a 
workplace where every individual is treated fairly and 
where differences are valued and respected. To that end 
the purpose of the Policy is to provide equality and fairness 
for all our employees. The Equality Policy is complemented 
and supported by a range of procedures and guidance 
that support the aim to promote and emphasise certain 
obligations for Horizon employees, and their directors 
and managers. 
For more information on our Equality Policy please visit 
https://www.horizonnuclearpower.com/our-policies

Wider Nuclear Industry initiatives 
Women in Nuclear UK 
We signed up to the WiN Charter 2016, stating that:
•   We acknowledge that the nuclear sector cannot reach 
its full potential without maximising the talents of all. 
We acknowledge that advancing equality and inclusivity 
demands commitment and action from all levels of the 
organisation and in particular active leadership from 
those in senior roles. 

•   We commit to identifying and removing the obstacles 
faced by women and other under-represented groups.
•   We commit to prioritise action to remove barriers to 
flexible working across the nuclear sector for all types 
of workers at all levels.

•   We actively encourage female employees to attend 

the annual WiN conference and highlight opportunities 
for participation within associated networking groups 
including regional WiN events. Women in Nuclear 
(WiN) Wales was launched in October 2017 with Maria 
Kolodnytska, Senior Project Engineer (Development) 
appointed as Regional Manager and Becky Smale,  
Senior Mechanical Engineer, appointed as Deputy 
Regional Manager.

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED5. Next Steps - Our ongoing commitment
It is widely acknowledged that organisations which achieve greater levels of diversity and 
inclusion within their workforce create an environment that supports and rewards the best 
talent, irrespective of gender. Horizon is committed to create such an inclusive environment 
and a culture where all individuals acknowledge and support the aspiration to support women 
and their progression to increased participation within leadership positions and to address and 
remove any gender-related barriers that may exist. 
 
Improving workplace demographics 
As a member of the Hitachi group of companies we will 
participate in workshops coordinated by our parent company 
to help ensure the sharing of best practice. 
In addition, we will focus effort to identify and highlight 
female role models from within the organisation to 
influence the next generation of female employees 
by connecting with those currently at school, making 
academic choices which will inevitably influence their future 
career paths. Female role models will be instrumental 
in challenging stereotypes and embedded perceptions of 
typical jobs for girls and demonstrate the potential benefits 
of a STEM career. Such activity can deliver positive results 
both in the medium and longer term, helping to develop a 
future diverse workforce with an improved skillset which 
reflects the demographic of wider society. 

Focusing on our Talent Development 
Programme and Succession Planning
Ensuring that female colleagues have equal opportunities 
and a clear career path to senior roles is an essential 
element of our forward action plan to address the existing 
gender pay gap. In addition, to ensure a sustainable 
pipeline of female leaders, we will develop and implement 
programmes that provide opportunities for growth and 
progression and, where necessary, intentionally focus on 
and encourage high-performing women to participate in 
such programmes.

Our current Graduate and Apprentice programmes provide 
excellent examples of successful women to those within 
primary and secondary education and, as their careers 
progress, can become role models and spokespeople to 
attract future female employees. As an industry, it is 
imperative that the nuclear sector is able to attract an 
increased pipeline of female talent who display a passion 
for science and technology.  

Approach to Flexible Working
We recognise that providing employees with flexibility to 
manage their hours and work location to accommodate 
changing demands can be a significant differentiator 
for companies seeking to attract talent. The driver for 
such flexibility is not specific to employees with childcare 
responsibilities, as within Horizon currently, there is 
evidence of increasing numbers of employees requesting 
such flexibility to care for elderly parents or partners with 
significant health issues. Such flexibility will be an integral 
element of our overall approach to the development and 
retention of key talent, irrespective of gender, with the aim 
to create an environment that values and promotes a range 
of working styles and practices.  

Approach to Reward
We will review our existing reward framework during 2018 to 
ensure it remains competitive and aligned with existing market 
practice. An essential element of this forthcoming review will 
encompass an equality assessment to identify and rectify any 
potential gender pay issues that may exist.

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKEDEnsuring our policies support diversity 
aspirations
We will ensure our Equality and related policies and 
associated arrangements operate in accordance with statutory 
requirements and actively support our diversity agenda.  
In addition, we take full account of any guidance or Codes of 
Practice issued by the Equality and Human Rights Commission, 
any Government departments, and any other statutory bodies. 
Related policies encompassing issues such as parental and 
caring leave, work-life balance and flexible working are also 
reviewed on a periodic basis to ensure best practice.

Communicating results 
The results of our Gender Pay report will be communicated 
to our people through various channels including the 
Intranet, staff forums and face-to-face briefings. This will 
include the opportunity for staff to feedback views and 
opinions on related proposals and initiatives to ensure that 
we regularly capture and adapt our practice as required to 
achieve optimum progress.

Employee survey
As part of the Hitachi Group we undertake an annual 
employee survey and, as part of our obligations to the 
Office for Nuclear Regulation, we conduct an annual Culture 
Survey. Both surveys will seek to capture staff feedback in 
relation to diversity initiatives and enable ongoing monitoring 
and review of activity and initiatives in this area.

Duncan Hawthorne

Chief Executive 
Horizon Nuclear Power

I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010  
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017

Horizon Gender Pay Gap ReportApril 2018NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED