Ipswich Borough Council – Gender Pay Gap Report

ABOUT THE REPORT 

Gender Pay Gap legislation introduced in April 2017 requires the Council to publish 
an annual gender pay gap report. 

The gender pay gap shows the difference between the average hourly pay for men 
and women in our organisation based on the snapshot date of 1st April 2017. This is 
different from equal pay which deals with the pay differences between men and 
women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value. 

The data set out in this report has been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. This 
includes calculating an hourly rate for all staff that were paid on the snapshot date 
using ordinary pay. Ordinary pay includes salary, hourly pay (i.e. casual employees), 
market supplements, honorarium payments, acting up allowance, contractual 
overtime and formal standby payments. Excluded are payments for voluntary 
overtime, call out fees, informal standby payments, allowances in relation to first aid 
and statutory officer payments.

Our gender pay gap report is split into four sections:- 

• What is our gender pay gap? 

• What is our quartile pay? 

• What is causing our gender pay gap? 

• What are we doing about our gender pay gap?

WHAT IS OUR GENDER PAY GAP?
 
The gender pay gap is the difference between the average hourly pay received by 
men and women across the Council as at 1st April 2017. We are reporting two 
measures of our gender pay gap, the mean and median gender pay gap. Please 
note that as the Council does not pay bonuses there are no figures to report. 

MEAN - The mean average involves adding up all the numbers and dividing the 
result by the number of values in the list. We calculate the mean average for both 
men’s and women’s hourly pay and report the percentage difference.
The Mean gender pay gap is 5.96%. 
This means that on a mean average men are paid 5.96% more than women

MEDIAN - The median involves listing all the employee’s hourly rates in numerical 
order. The median is the middle number. We calculate the median for both men’s 
and women’s hourly pay and report the percentage difference. The median gender 
pay gap removes any influence of very high and very low pay.
The Median gender pay gap is 0% - 
This means that on a median average men and women are paid the same

HOW DOES THIS COMPARE TO OTHER NEARBY 
COUNCILS?
At the time of drafting not all District and Borough Councils in Suffolk have reported 
their Gender Pay Gap. However, the table below shows the results for those that 
have:

Councils in Suffolk 
Ipswich Borough Council 

Forest Heath 

St Edmundsbury Borough 
Council 

Suffolk Coastal District & 
Waveney District Council 

Mean
5.96%

9.1%

1.9%

13.2%

Median
0%

11.5%

7.7%

18.5%

This means that Ipswich Borough Council’s overall Gender Pay Gap is better than 
the other Suffolk Districts and Boroughs which have reported at the time of writing of 
this report. While St Edmundsbury Borough Council has a lower mean gap, they 
have not published a report to accompany the data and so we cannot identify from 
publically available data why this might be to compare it with Ipswich’s position. 

WHAT IS OUR QUARTILE PAY? 
The quartile data below shows the Council’s workforce divided into four equal sized 
groups based on calculated hourly pay rates, each quartile made up of 25% of the 
workforce. The lowest paid 25% of employees are the lower quartile and the highest 
paid 25% are the upper quartile. Our pay quartiles by gender are:-

Male Female

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4

41% 59%
46% 54%
46% 54%
53% 47%

IBC 47% 53%

This shows that on 1st April 2017 just over half the workforce was female and just 
under half was male. Our highest ratio of women to men is in the lowest pay quartile 
and our lowest ratio is in the top quartile. This means that the Council’s higher paid 
employees are more likely to be male than female. 

WHAT IS CAUSING OUR GENDER PAY GAP?
The Council is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment 
for all employees. Legislation requires that men and women must receive equal pay 
for the same or broadly similar work, work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation 
scheme, or work of equal value. In line with this we have a clear policy of paying 
employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex, or any 
other characteristic, through a job evaluation scheme which is used to evaluate job 
roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair pay structure. We are confident 
that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for 
the same or equivalent work. 
Rather it is having more men than women in more senior roles that generates our 
gender pay gap. For example the top quartile of pay includes 30 jobs making up the 
Senior Managers Group (Operations Managers, Heads of Service, Chief Operating 
Officer and Chief Executive). On 1st April 2017, nine of these posts were occupied by 
female employees. 
Analysis of our data shows that this pay gap does not arise from males and females 
doing the same job/at the same level of management being paid differently. As an 
employer we support men and women to develop to the best of their potential and 
are confident that we pay them equally for carrying out the same roles. We are also 
committed to ensuring our policies and opportunities are fair and equitable for all.

WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT OUR GENDER PAY GAP?
We already carry out a number of actions to promote gender equality, including:-

• Monitoring of the workforce in relation to a number of issues including pay and 

recruitment and selection.

• Gender monitoring of the workforce and men and women applying for jobs.
• Analysing salary grades by gender across the Council.
• Compiling workforce equalities data including local performance indicators 
 Developing a People Strategy that sets out our vision for the workplace 

Moving forward we will also be undertaking the following further actions to address 
our gender pay gap:-

• Reviewing how we recruit to more senior roles to ensure we are not 
unconsciously making it easier for men to be appointed than women

• Reviewing our employee development programmes to ensure that they meet 
the needs of different sections of our workforce and enable all employees to 
fulfil their potential

• Continually reviewing and improving of the recruitment process in order to 

attract a wider range of applicants for posts.

