                                                                                            

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 
 
Gender Pay  Gap  Reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations 
every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees.   
 
The report is based on pay data as at 5th April 2017 and includes both our umbrella employees and head office staff. As a 
company we do not discriminate when taking on employees or establishing pay rates, in accordance with the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
Gender Pay Gap 

Women's hourly rate is 

 
Pay Quartiles 

Men 

81.2% 

96.8% 

97.4% 

97.0% 

93.1% 

 
Bonus Pay Gap 

Women's bonus pay is 

Who received bonus pay 

Mean 

66.5% Higher 

Median 

85.2% Higher 

  

Women 

Top Quartile 

Upper Middle Quartile 

Lower Middle Quartile 

Lower Quartile 

Total Employee Split 

Mean 

0% Higher 

Men 

0% 

18.8% 

3.2% 

2.6% 

3.0% 

6.9% 

Median 

0% Higher 

Women 

0% 

 
Written Statement 
Crest Plus delivers payment and accountancy solutions for contractors in the UK and work with thousands of contractors 
in a range of sectors, from construction to healthcare.   
 
Our umbrella solution directly employs contractors and freelance workers who work on  fixed and flexible term contract 
assignments.  Our  employees  find  the  majority  of  their  assignments  through  recruitment  agencies  and  Crest  Plus  is 
mindful  of  the  rates  agreed.  The  results  are  reflective  of  the  construction  sector  that  Crest  Plus  is  primarily  in.    This 
sector is heavily male dominated and this can be seen in the results of the pay quartiles where the percentage of men in 
each quartile is very high. 
 
Crest Plus also contract within the Healthcare sector  where high rates of pay are commanded.  This has resulted in the 
women’s hourly pay being considerably greater and why the percentage of women in the top pay quartile is higher than 
in the other pay quartiles. 
 
We  are  proud  to  report  that  our  head  office  workforce  is  provided  equal  opportunities  and  talent  is  recognised  and 
rewarded at all levels.    

Derek Harling – Managing Director 

 

