	

 
 
Gender	Pay	Gap	Reporting	2017	

	

EXECUTIVE	SUMMARY	

Abingdon	Flooring	is	a	progressive	employer	who	believes	equality	is	one	of	the	key	pillars	
of	a	successful	business.		We	have	prepared	our	first	Gender	Pay	Gap	report	to	comply	with	
the	Equality	Act	2010	(Gender	Pay	Gap	Information)	Regulations	2017,	which	shows:	

•  A	mean	gender	pay	gap	of	11.3%	(compared	to	UK	average	of	18.1%).	
•  A	median	gender	pay	gap	of	6.8%		
•  A	mean	bonus	gender	pay	gap	of	17.1%.	
•  A	median	bonus	gender	pay	gap	of	-19.1%.	
•  A	bonus	payment	was	received	by	98.4%	of	females	and	96.9%	of	males	
•  Below	 are	 the	 quartile	 figures	 showing	 the	 proportion	 of	 each	 gender	 in	 each	

quartile	pay	band	

Quartile	
Female	
Male	

DECLARATION	

Lower	
32.6%	
67.4%	

Lower	middle	

Upper	middle	

9.8%	
90.2%	

5.4%	
94.6%	

Upper	
14.0%	
86.0%	

I	hereby	confirm	that	the	information	provided	in	this	report	to	be	accurate.	

	

Jim	Taylor	
Managing	Director	

26	January	2018	

	

	

	

	

	

INTRODUCTION	

Abingdon	Flooring	Ltd	operates	within	the	textile	sector	manufacturing	wool,	polyester	and	
polypropylene	carpets	to	our	customers’	requirements.			

The	company	is	required	by	law	to	carry	out	Gender	Pay	Reporting	under	the	Equality	Act	
2010	(Gender	Pay	Gap	Information)	Regulations	2017.		Reporting	must	be	complete	by	end	
of	March	2018.		This	Gender	Pay	Gap	Report	is	based	on	data	as	at	the	5th	April	2017.		These	
figures	 have	 been	 reached	 using	 the	 mechanisms	 that	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 gender	 pay	 gap	
legislation.	

The	requirement	involves	carrying	out	six	calculations	that	show	the	difference	between	the	
average	 earnings	 of	 men	 and	 women	 in	 our	 organisation.	 	 We	 can	 use	 these	 results	 to	
assess:	
•	
•	
•	

the	levels	of	gender	equality	in	our	workplace	
the	balance	of	male	and	female	employees	at	different	levels	
how	effectively	talent	is	being	maximised	and	rewarded.	

GENDER	PAY	GAP	CALCULATIONS	

1.  The	Mean	Gender	Pay	Gap	

Mean	 averages	 are	 useful	 because	 they	 place	 the	 same	 value	 on	 every	 number	 they	
use,	giving	a	good	overall	indication	of	the	gender	pay	gap,	but	very	large	or	small	pay	
rates	can	dominate	and	distort	the	answer.		The	mean	gender	pay	gap	for	April	2017	
was	11.3%,	much	lower	than	the	UK	average	for	all	employees	of	18.1%	in	2016.	

Our	 analysis	 of	 comparable	 roles	 shows	 that	 we	 reward	 men	 and	 women	 fairly	 for	
similar	 work.	 	 The	 key	 drivers	 behind	 the	 mean	 gender	 pay	 gap	 is	 that	 shiftwork	 is	
predominantly	carried	out	by	males	–	note	that	any	women	working	shirt	work	patterns	
receive	exactly	the	same	remuneration.		Whilst	there	is	no	occupational	reason	for	male	
dominance	 in	 this	 role	 we	 have	 found	 it	 extremely	 difficult	 to	 attract	 females	 to	
manufacturing	roles.	

The	 second	 key	 driver	 reflects	 the	 lower	 representation	 of	 women	 at	 senior	 levels	
within	the	organisation	and	especially	our	difficulty	in	recruiting	women	in	operations,	
technical	and	engineering	disciplines.	

	

2 

2.  The	Median	Gender	Pay	Gap	

Median	averages	are	useful	to	indicate	what	the	‘typical’	situation	is	i.e.	in	the	middle	of	
an	 organisation	 and	 are	 not	 distorted	 by	 very	 large	 or	 small	 pay	 rates.	 	 The	 median	
gender	 pay	 gap	 for	 April	 2017	 was	 6.8%.	 	 This	 measure	 shows	 that	 the	 shift	 pattern	
implications	 and	 lower	 representation	 of	 women	 at	 senior	 level	 is	 much	 less	
pronounced	and	the	‘typical’	gender	pay	gap	is	lower	than	the	mean.	

3.  The	Mean	Bonus	Gender	Pay	Gap	

The	Mean	Bonus	Gender	Pay	Gap	can	be	a	good	measure	where	bonus	payments	are	
common	 across	 and	 organisation,	 large	 or	 small	 bonus	 payments	 can	 dominate	 and	
distort	the	answer	where	such	payments	are	not	prevalent	across	the	business;	this	is	
partially	 the	 case	 with	 Abingdon	 as	 the	 sales	 force	 are	 paid	 a	 commission	 bonus.		
However,	 most	 employees	 participate	 in	 an	 incentive	 payment	 for	 attendance	 this	
being	the	main	reason	for	the	mean	bonus	gender	pay	gap	for	the	12	months	to	5	April	
2017	being	only	17.1%	(mostly	sales	force).			

The	Median	Bonus	Gender	Pay	Gap	

Furthermore	the	median	bonus	gender	pay	gap	was	-19.1%	for	the	12	months	to	5	April	
2017,	mainly	due	to	more	female	than	male	employees	achieving	the	attendance	bonus	
payment.	

4.  The	Proportion	of	Males	&	Females	Receiving	a	Bonus	Payment	

For	the	FY2016/17	the	proportion	of	Males	and	Females	receiving	a	bonus	payment	was	
98.4%	of	females	and	96.9%	of	males.	

5.  The	Proportion	of	Males	&	Females	in	Each	Quartile	Pay	Band	

The	proportion	of	each	gender	in	quartile	pay	bands	for	April	2017	shows:	

Quartile	
Female	
Male	

	

Lower	
32.6%	
67.4%	

Lower	middle	

Upper	middle	

9.8%	
90.2%	

5.4%	
94.6%	

Upper	
14.0%	
86.0%	

The	above	table	shows	that	the	majority	of	women	employed	by	Abingdon	are	in	the	
lower	and	lower	middle	bands	which	confirm	the	fact	that	we	have	a	low	percentage	in	
the	more	senior	positions	(Upper	middle	and	Upper	bands).		Whilst	we	have	1	female	
director	of	the	five	on	the	board	(20%)	and	4	female	managers	out	of	25	(16%)	we	will	
endeavour	to	improve	on	these	figures.	

	

3 

ACTION	PLAN	

Unfortunately	fewer	women	study	and	work	in	science,	technology,	engineering	and	maths	
[STEM]	disciplines	in	the	UK	which	form	a	large	part	of	our	organisation.		In	the	medium	to	
longer	 terms	 our	 aim	 is	 to	 recruit/develop	 more	 female	 employees	 into	 our	 operations	
focused	functions	as	well	as	our	Senior	Management	Team.			

In	order	to	achieve	this	aim	we	will:	

•  Support	 national	 activities	 from	 Government	 and	 education/training	 providers	 to	

encourage	increases	in	female	participation	in	STEM	subjects.	

•  We	are	satisfied	that	our	recruitment	and	retention	strategies	are	not	biased	against	
gender	but	we	will	attempt	to	break	down	the	stereotypical	barriers	and	beliefs	that	
traditional	manufacturing	should	be	a	male	dominant	environment.	

	

	

	

4 

