Elsevier Limited 
2017 UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

INTRODUCTION 

Under UK legislation (the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017), companies with 
250 or more employees in Great Britain are required to publish specified UK gender pay gap statistics. Elsevier 
Limited is the UK employing entity for Elsevier, which is a global information analytics business.   

Elsevier Limited employs around 1,200 people in Great Britain, representing approximately 16% of Elsevier’s 
global employee population. This Report for Elsevier Limited is published in accordance with the UK legislation. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORTING REQUIREMENT 

The UK gender pay gap is different from equal pay. The UK gender pay gap measures the overall difference 
between the average pay received by men and the average pay received by women in a workplace. It therefore 
reflects the different number of men and women at varying levels of seniority, and doing different roles. The UK 
gender pay gap does not measure or compare pay in like-for-like roles. By contrast, equal pay is a legal 
requirement in the UK to pay men and women the same for equal or similar work. Elsevier Limited is committed 
to equal pay and has policies in place to pay employees fairly for the role they do, irrespective of their gender. A 
UK gender pay gap can exist despite men and women being paid equally for the same or similar roles. 

The reason for the total pay gap at Elsevier Limited is that there are more men than women in senior roles, which 
are higher paid roles, and more women than men in lower paid roles, as illustrated by the Pay Quartile statistics 
below. Many factors contribute to this. For example, Elsevier Limited recruits a lot of employees from STEM 
(science, technology, engineering and maths) industries, which attract more men than women.  

The bonus pay gap statistics reflect the fact that opportunities to receive performance-related pay (for example 
annual and share based incentives and sales commission) increase with seniority and the more senior the 
population, the higher the proportion of men to women.  
 
THE ACTIONS WE ARE TAKING GLOBALLY 

Elsevier is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive work place.  To learn more about our vision and 
initiatives, including our efforts to increase representation of women in senior roles, please click here. 
 
THE UK GENDER PAY GAP INFORMATION FOR ELSEVIER LIMITED 
 

Pay Quartile  % of 
men  
Upper  
74.4% 
Upper Middle   69.2% 
Lower Middle   39.1% 
27.5% 
Lower  
 
 
 
 
 
 

% of 
women  
25.6% 
30.8% 
60.9% 
72.5% 
 
 
 

Median total pay 
gap per quartile 
-8.7% 
3.7% 
2.6% 
6.3% 
 
 
 

  Mean total pay gap 

 

  Median total pay gap 
 
  % of men receiving bonus pay 
  % of women receiving bonus pay 
 
  Mean bonus pay gap 
  Median bonus pay gap 

 

29.1% 

40.4% 
 
56.5% 
45.7% 
 
30.0% 
47.5% 

 
I confirm that the information and data provided in this Report are accurate and in line with the UK legislation.  
Simon Helliwell, EVP Human Resources 
 
Notes 
1 The pay quartiles show the gender distribution across Elsevier Limited. Each pay quartile contains a quarter of the total Elsevier Limited employees, who 
were ranked from highest pay (upper quartile) to lowest pay (lower quartile). 
2 The total pay gap is based on employees’ hourly rate of pay, calculated using their ordinary pay and any bonus pay received in April 2017. Ordinary pay 
includes regular pay (eg base salary and allowances). Bonus pay includes all types of incentive pay (eg annual bonus, commission, share based award pay outs 
and option exercises).  
3 The proportions of men/women receiving bonus pay and the bonus pay gap are based on bonus pay received in the 12 months to 5 April 2017. 
4 The mean is found by adding up the values and then dividing by the number of values. 
5 The median is found by listing the values in order and finding the middle number in the list (or, if there are equal numbers, the mean of the 2 middle 
numbers). 

