Ornua Foods UK 
Gender Pay Gap 2017
The Home of Irish Dairy

March 2018

1

Gender Pay Gap 2017 – Ornua Foods UK Ltd

Introduction

From April 2017, all UK organisations employing in excess of 250 people are required by law to report annually on their Gender Pay Gap.

The Gender Pay Gap shouldn’t be confused with equal pay.  Equal pay means that men and women in the same employment and performing equal work must receive equal pay.  However, the 
Gender Pay Gap is defined as the difference between the average earnings of men and women, regardless of seniority or job role, as at the 5th April each year.  

Ornua Foods is committed to being an Equal Opportunities employer, we offer a variety of opportunities from  production to executive.  We believe in investing in all our employees, 
empowering them to reach their full potential through various training programmes and ongoing support.

The gender pay statistics

This report shows that, on average, men earn 3.98% more per hour than women based on hourly pay, which increases to 4.10% more per hour inclusive of bonus, and that men earned on
average 52.6% more in bonuses in the period 6 April 2016 – 5 April 2017.

There is only a small difference of 0.63% at the middle points in the ranges of men and women’s pay when calculating the median on hourly pay, which reduces further to -1.68% per hour
inclusive of bonus, however there is a 58.33% difference in the bonus mid points.

This data shows that although the same number of men and women received a bonus, there is a significant disparity between the bonus amounts paid to men versus women. As senior leaders
typically earn the highest bonuses and we have a larger proportion of men in the senior positions, this would explain why we have this disparity. However, we are confident that all genders in
the bonus scheme are treated equally where their roles are at similar levels.

Calculation

Hourly Pay

Hourly Pay inc Bonus

Bonus pay

PROPORTION OF MALE/FEMALE WORKFORCE IN 

Mean

Median

3.98%

0.63%

4.10%

-1.68%

52.6%

58.33%

Our overall gender workforce

Based on an overall headcount of 596, 
426 males and 170 females

Men
72%

Women

28%

RECEIPT OF A BONUS

4%

Men
(18)

11%

Women

(18)

2

Gender Pay Gap 2017 – Ornua Foods UK Ltd

Pay Quartiles 5 April 2017

The pay quartiles show the percentage of men and women when
segmented by pay quartiles of equal number of employees.

The table below shows a breakdown of role type for each quartile.

As we have a significant number of employees (416 of the total 596)
working in manufacturing and operational roles and these roles typically
carry a lower pay rate than office based professional roles, when divided
into equal parts, 3 of the 4 quartiles are heavily represented by the
hourly paid workforce. We can see that a significant proportion of roles in
the lower and upper middle quartile are carried out by men. In 2017 we
introduced a new grading approach which aims to encourage all
employees to learn new skills and increase their earning potential. We
believe this will encourage women to aspire to move through the pay
grades.

Quartile

Role type

Lower

Operative, Administrator

Lower Middle

Operative, Administrator

Upper Middle

Operative, Administrator, Team Leader, 

Supervisor

Upper

Specialist, Engineer, Manager, Senior 

Manager, Executive

LOWER

LOWER MIDDLE

Male

Female

Male

Female

54%

46%

6%

94%

UPPER MIDDLE

Male

Female

UPPER

Male

Female

22%

33%

78%

67%

3

Gender Pay Gap 2017 – Ornua Foods UK Ltd

Company Profile

A note from our MD:

Ornua Foods probably isn’t as widely recognised as some of our brands, these include
Pilgrims Choice cheese and Kerrygold Butter. An interesting fact about our business, we
are the largest buyer of British cheese in the UK.

With our workforce being predominantly male, there is clearly a gap in our gender
balance. However, I am pleased to report that our gender pay gap is well below the
national averages. Our bonus payments, however, for the year in question, do not show
such a healthy picture. For 2017, we reviewed the bonus arrangements and established
a revised set of criteria and I am confident this will address some of the bonus pay gap
differences.

Our business is committed to:

Bridging the gap

On 5 April 2017 we employed a total of 596 people. As is typical of a food
manufacturing business our workforce has an uneven gender balance - 72% of our
workforce is male.

We realise that to create a better balance we must make ourselves more appealing to
females, we are doing this through:

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Our creative recruitment strategies

Focusing on hiring the right person for the job, be that male or female

Applying our Equal Opportunities policy and regularly reviewing its impact

Offering career progression for all who have the appetite and aptitude, including a
progression capability driven pay structure for our operational roles

A global and local focus on diversity and inclusion, with a lens on gender as a first
priority

A revised make-up of the bonus plan for 2017 performance year

Regularly reviewing our policies, and procedures, such as family friendly related
policies

•

•

•

•

Introducing new initiatives to our recruitment strategies to attract more females
into our business

Regularly monitoring and analysing our data to ensure progress is ongoing and
expectations are achieved

Introducing changes
commercially, nationally and locally

to our

reward offerings and regular benchmarking,

Continuing to treat all our colleagues with thought and with heart

I can confirm all our data is accurate.

Bill Hunter
Managing Director 
Ornua Foods Ltd

4

