GENDER 
PAY GAP 
REPORT

overview

Following the introduction of  new legislation, all organisations with over 250 employees in 
the U.K are required to publish their gender pay gap information on an annual basis.  

We want to ensure that we create an environment for all of our colleagues to thrive, where nothing gets 
in the way of a colleague fulfilling their potential and aspirations. This will make us a better business, 
ready to meet the challenges facing our industry in the 21st century.

Understanding the Gender Pay Gap

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference 
between two measures; the mean and the  
median hourly rate of pay that male and female 
colleagues receive. It is expressed as a percentage  
of men’s earnings.

Also measured is the gender bonus gap. This is defined 
as the difference in mean and median bonus pay.  The 
proportion of male and female employees who received 
bonus pay is also measured.
Nationally in 2017, the gender pay gap mean was 17.4% 
and the gender pay gap median was 18.4%.
The gender pay gap is different to equal pay. Equal pay 
means that women and men in the same employment 
performing equal work must receive equal pay, as set out 
in the Equality Act 2010.

The Data at a Glance

The difference between mean and median pay gaps

The mean pay gap is the difference between average hourly earnings 
of men and women.

The median pay gap is the difference between the midpoints in the 
ranges of hourly earnings of men and women. It takes each person’s 
pay and lines them up in order, from lowest to highest, 
and compares the pay at the midpoint. 

These figures are provided in the charts below and are based on 
hourly rate of pay as at April 2017 and bonuses paid in the 12 
months prior to April 2017.

AB Agri Mean Gender Pay Gap

The mean pay gap is the difference between average hourly 
earnings of men and women.

men

women

+16.8%

Looking across our business our mean gender pay gap is 16.8%.

This means that, when you look at the average of what men are  
paid by the hour, and compare it to the average of what women  
are paid by the hour, women are paid 16.8% less than men.

AB Agri Median Gender Pay Gap

MEN

WOmen

+5.3%

When we explore the midpoints of hourly rate ranges of men and 
women then it is women, at the midpoint, that get paid 5.3% more per 
hour than men.

Gender Bonus Pay Gap

We must also report on the difference in mean and median 
bonus pay and on the proportion of male and female 
employees who received bonus pay.

AB Agri Mean Gender Bonus Pay Gap

men

women

+42.4%

Our mean gender bonus gap is 42.4%. 
 
This means that, when looking across our business at the difference 
between the average bonuses paid to men and women, our female 
population receive 42.4% less than men.

AB Agri Median Gender Bonus Pay Gap

men

WOMEN

NO DIFFERENCE

When we explore the midpoints of bonuses for women and men  
then there is no gap.

Proportion of female and 
male colleagues receiving 

a bonus payment

92.6%

Male Colleagues

88.3%

Female Colleagues

This shows a 4.3% difference in the 
number of men and women who 

received a bonus. 

UNDERSTANDING OUR RESULTS

Our analysis of our gender pay gap of 16.8% and gender bonus gap of 42.4% shows that the disparity in  
pay is driven by two key factors.

A high average length of service

1
We continually focus on creating the very best place to 
work and our reputation as a supplier and employer, 
in the agricultural industry has been carefully built over 
the past three decades. We have always been immensely 
proud that our people have found rewarding and exciting 
careers within our group and chosen not to leave us. This 
does impact the opportunity for women to enter our 
business in senior and commercial positions.

2

A higher proportion of men in senior, 
commercial and operational roles 

-   The number of men in senior roles is higher than women.
-   It is this distribution of men and women across our 

business that contributes to our gender pay and 
bonus gap. Please see table 1 opposite.

Proportion of male and female colleagues 
in each pay quartile

 This table shows the gender split when we order hourly rate 
of pay from highest to lowest and group into four equal parts. 

Table 1

% of employees in 
each pay quartile

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

Female

22.9%
38.2%
11.6%
39.9%

Male

77.1%
61.8%
88.4%
60.1%

-   This is clearly illustrated when we look at the proportion 

of female and male colleagues in each pay quartile  
(see Table 1).

-   The nature of our business requires a high number of 

operational and commercial people. Traditionally, these 
roles have attracted more men than women.

-   With more women entering our industry we are working 
hard to make a career at AB Agri an appealing prospect 
for men and women. For the past nine years we have run 
a graduate programme and we are now looking at how 
we develop and support ‘early careers’.

-   Historically, for our graduate scheme we have recruited 

an equal balance of women and men.

CREATING A 
BUSINESS FIT FOR 
THE LONG TERM 

At AB Agri we have a detailed 
understanding of agriculture’s 
importance in our changing 
world and the ambition to 
drive ever greater production 
efficiency has been our core 
philosophy for over 30 years.
We recognise that, in order to 
achieve that vision, we must reflect 
the diversity of people our industry 
serves, attract and retain the best 
talent and be an inclusive and 
ethical organisation in which all 

of our colleagues can perform at 
their best - regardless of gender, 
sexuality, ethnicity, or any other 
characteristics. 

You can find out more information 
about our commitment to  
being a responsible business  
by visiting our website;  
www.abagri.com and exploring 
our ‘Responsibility’ pages.

I can confirm that the data and 
information reported are accurate 
as of 5th April 2017 and in line 
with the Gender Pay reporting 
regulation.

José Nobre
Chief Executive, AB Agri
March 2018

