 

 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report  

 
Gender  pay  gap  reporting  is  an  incredibly  important  step  forward  for 
Chase de Vere as an organisation.  Not only will it enable us to identify 
the  root  cause  of  any  gap,  it  also  provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to 
understand how we can address it.  

 
Being one of the largest IFA’s in the UK we want to create a culture that attracts and retains talented 
people, and one where everyone has an equal opportunity to thrive, regardless of their background, 
race, ethnicity or gender.  
 
We are committed to supporting equality through fair pay.  We are confident that men and women 
are paid equally for the same job, however the greater proportion of men relative to women in our 
upper quartile pay bands creates a gender pay gap.   
 

 

 
Stephen Kavanagh  
Chief Executive  
 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
 
The gender pay gap is an equality measure that shows the difference in average earnings between 
men and women1.  
 
It measures the difference between the average pay of all men and women in a company.  Often, the 
gender pay gap is confused with unequal pay, though this is a different measurement.  Unequal pay is 
where one gender is paid less than the other for the same work.  
 
The Equality Act 2010 Regulations aims to tackle the gender pay gap that exists in organisations and 
provide  transparency  around  gender  pay  gap  differences.  The  regulations  require  employers  with 
more than 250 employees to report to the government and make publicly available their gender pay 
gap metrics.  
 
                                                           
 1 UK Gender Pay Gap – https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-gender-pay-gap 

 

 
 

Headline Gender Pay Gap Figures  
 
Gender Pay Gap  

 

 

 

 

26% 

 

 

 

 

         *Mean 

 

 

 

Gender Bonus Gap 

 

37% 

 

 

 

 

         *Mean 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

30.8% 

 

       *Median 

 

 

84% 

 

       *Median 

The gender pay gap is defined as the difference 
the mean or median hourly rate of pay that male 
and female colleagues receive.  
 
The mean pay gap is the average hourly earnings 
of men and women.  The median pay gap is the 
difference between the mid points in the ranges 
of hourly earnings of men and women (takes all 
the  salaries  in  the  sample,  ranks  them  in  order 
from lowest to highest, and picks the middle-most 
salary).  
 
According to a benchmarking report produced by 
PWC in February 20172, Financial Services has the 
largest gender pay gap across all the UK industry 
sectors with the indicative average gap being 34%. 
 
At 26% we can see that the mean gender pay gap 
at  Chase  de  Vere  falls  below  the  predictions  of 
PWC for financial services in terms of hourly pay.  
Although this is positive in relation to the industry 
benchmark, we recognise that more needs to be 
achieved to improve the gender pay gap.   
 

 
*The figures provided are based on rates of pay as at 5 April 2017 
and bonuses paid in the year to March 2017. 
 
In terms of our bonus pay gap, this is driven by the number of men who received a bonus compared 
to women – 149 men compared to 78 women. Our bonus gap is driven largely by the fact that we have 
significantly  more  male  than  female  Financial  Advisers,  who  are  all  eligible  to  receive  a  bonus 
payment. This has had a significant adverse impact on our median bonus pay gap in particular.   
 
 
Proportion of male and female colleagues receiving a bonus payment 
 
Colleagues eligible to receive a bonus payment are generally concentrated 
in the upper middle and upper quartile bands, and there is no formal bonus 
structure in place for the vast majority of colleagues in the lower middle and 
lower quartile bands.  

55.2%

 

Although this adversely affects both genders, it impacts a higher proportion 
of  female  colleagues  that  are  in  lower  middle  and  lower  quartile  bands.  
Overall,  the  proportion  of  colleagues  who  receive  a  bonus  across  the 
organisation  regardless  of  gender  is  48%,  and  the  majority  of  these 
colleagues are Financial Advisers.  
 
________________________ 

2 PWC Women in Work – Closing the Gender Pay Gap – https://www.pwc.co.uk/economic-services/WIWI-2017- 
report-final.pdf – A benchmarking report published by PWC suggested that over 60% of financial services firms will 
report a mean and median pay gap of between 20-40% with the average reporting a pay gap of around 34%.  

Male

39.8%

Female

 
 

Gender Representation: Pay and Bonus Gap by Quartile 
 
The charts below show the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile (when we order the 
hourly rate of pay from highest to lowest and group them into four equal quartiles). Each quartile 
comprises of 111 colleagues in total.  
 
We understand that this gender profile is typical of many financial institutions across the UK.  Female 
representation  is  positive  in  both  our  quartiles  one  and  two,  however  representation  shows  an 
imbalance in our upper quartiles three and four.  We are committed to exploring ways in which we 
can redress the imbalance of male and female colleagues in these quartiles.  
 

Lower - 1

Lower Middle - 2

Upper Middle - 3

Upper - 4

56.8%

43.2

%

50.
5%

49.5

%

33.3

%

66.7

%

23.4

%

76.6

%

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

Male

Female

Male

Female

 

 

      1% pay gap                                 4% pay gap 

 

             6% pay gap 

               -27% pay gap 

     6% bonus gap 

 

12% bonus gap                            3% bonus gap 

             -9% bonus gap 

 

 

 
 
When we look at the mean pay and bonus gaps broken down by each quartile pay band, this gives us 
greater  insight  as  to  the  extent  of  our  gaps  relative  to  the  bands.    These  results  are  extremely 
encouraging as not only are there negative pay gaps in the upper quartile band for both mean pay and 
mean bonus (which means that female colleagues are paid more than male colleagues as an average), 
the gaps in the remaining quartiles are significantly lower than the headline figures.  
 
The equality in our pay and bonus structures are reflected in these quartile breakdowns, and further 
supports that we are an employer that promotes equality through fair pay, ensuring bonus payments 
are linked to individual performance and achieved by generating positive customer outcomes.  
 
 
Why we have a gender pay gap? 
 
While we are confident that men and women are paid equally for the same job at Chase de Vere, the 
main  reason  for  our  company  wide  gender  pay  gap  is  due  to  an  imbalance  of  male  and  female 
colleagues, particularly in our upper quartile pay bands three and four.  
 
There  are  also  significantly  fewer  women  than  men  who  are  employed  as  Financial  Advisers, 
something that is consistent across the industry, a higher proportion of women relative to men in the 

 
 

lower quartile pay bands one and two, and more women that work part time.  These factors all play a 
contributory role.   
 
To provide some context it is important to explain that  the Financial Adviser role accounts for just 
under 50% of the overall number of colleagues who work at Chase de Vere.  This role also provides 
colleagues with the greatest opportunity to sit in the upper quartile pay bands than any other role in 
the organisation.  Given that there are significantly fewer women relative to men in this role, with 
women accounting for 17%  of the overall  Financial Adviser  population, this  has adversely affected 
both the gender pay and bonus gaps.  
 
 
How are we addressing the pay gap? 
 
As an organisation we have been focussed on always recruiting the best people, irrespective of their 
background, race, ethnicity or gender.  We are also committed to equality through fair pay. 
 
We recognise that tackling the gender pay gap will take time, however we understand that we need 
to take a proactive approach. Therefore, through the course of 2018 and beyond, we will consider the 
following initiatives to help us understand how we can reduce the gap: 
 

  Recruitment – ensuring that we select the right person for the job through fair and transparent 
processes.  Explore ways to attract more women to join the business in key positons such as 
Independent Financial Advisers, Senior Managers and in other roles that have typically been 
undertaken by men.   
 

  Gender balanced shortlists – to encourage an equal share of men and women on our shortlists 
and  have  a  better  chance  of  getting  the  best  person  for  the  role.    That  could  mean  more 
women in some jobs or more men in others.  
 

  Ensure that gender forms a central part of our inclusion strategy.  

 

  Hold unconscious bias training for managers.  

 

  Continue to take action to address any gaps and to make sure our policies and procedures are 
fair.    This  includes  actively  reviewing  decisions  around  our  annual  performance,  pay,  and 
bonus  payments  for  bias  to  ensure  that  all  colleagues  are  recognised  according  to  their 
contribution and performance, irrespective of gender.  
 

  Family policies – developing policies to help remove the barriers that colleagues with family 

or caring commitments can face in advancing their careers.  

 

We will also continue to report on gender pay in line with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 and update on progress.  

 

 

 

 
 

