Gender Pay 
Gap Report 
2017

Introduction

Opening Statement from Greg Clark, Symantec CEO

Symantec is guided by a set of values that demand the highest  
ethical standards. Our values underscore our commitment to building 
a strong, diverse, and passionate team—a team that stands together 
to protect our customers like no one else can.

The UK-specific Gender Pay Gap (GPG) regulations 
have given us an opportunity to see how well we’re 
living up to our values and our commitment to 
diversity at Symantec. As a company, it’s important 
that we assess female representation throughout 
our UK-based organisation and globally, and ensure 
pay programmes continue to deliver outcomes in line 
with our focus on skill and performance. I confirm 
that the findings shared in the following report are 
accurate and representative of the pay analysis 
undertaken for Symantec UK and has been prepared 
in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay 
Gap Reporting) Regulations 2017.

Our values demand we set the bar high and exceed 
it–to deliver what we promise–and our assessment 
shows that while we are headed in the right direction, 
we can continue to improve. 

We reaffirm our commitment to driving greater 
diversity within job roles that do not reach our 
diversity standards and to ensure we place greater 
investment in building our female leadership bench.  

We celebrate diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) 
because it fuels innovation; innovation is the heart  
of Symantec. We will continue to work towards 
building a more inclusive team that supports both  
our mission and values.

 
 
Greg Clark, Symantec CEO

What is the  
Gender Pay Gap?

As of April 2017, all employers with 250 or more employees in Great  
Britain must report statutory median and mean calculations on the size of 
their Gender Pay Gap and Gender Bonus Gap. Employers must also publish 
figures on the proportion of males and females receiving bonuses, as well  
as the proportion of men and women in each quartile of the organisation’s  
pay structure.

•  Gender Pay Gap: measures the difference between average 

hourly earnings for men and women in a company on a 
given date. For this report, the pay period encompassing 
5 April 2017 is used. This measurement includes base pay 
and allowances paid in April 2017.  

The Gender Pay Gap in the UK should not be confused with 
‘equal pay’ or ‘pay equity.’ Equal pay represents the legal 
requirements to pay men and women the same for performing 
the same or like work, and have been in place in the UK for  
over 40 years. 

•  Gender Bonus Gap: measures the difference in all incentive 

pay received by men and women in the 12 months leading 
up to 5 April 2017. This measurement includes all bonuses, 
long-term incentives, and sales commission payments.

A gender pay gap is the result of a gender imbalance, for 
example having more men than women in senior roles and the 
predominance of men in higher paying specialist positions.

What is the  
Gender Pay Gap?

Mean and Median compared

The gap

£

£

The gap

£

££

£££

Mean:  
The mean is calculated by dividing the total pay of all employees by the total number 
of employees. One calculation is done for all male employees and another done for 
all female employees. The two calculations are then compared. Mean averages give 
a good overall indication of the gender pay gap, but very high or very low pay rates/
bonuses can skew the results.

Median:  
The median is the pay that sits 
directly between the lowest 
salary and the highest salary 
when all salaries are ranked. 
Statisticians believe this to be 
the best view of ‘typical’ pay as 
it is not distorted by very large 
or small pay rates/bonuses.1

1 http://m.acas.org.uk/media/pdf/m/4/Managing_gender_
pay_reporting_04_12_17.pdf

Reporting both mean and median figures provides 
a more rounded understanding of the GPG.

Gender pay gap quartile figures:  
Gender pay gap quartile figures show the proportion 
of male and female employees within four pay bands. 
Employees are ranked from highest to lowest paid, 
then divided into four equal parts (‘quartiles’) to 
determine the percentage of men and women in each 
of the four bands.

Our  
Results

Results for Symantec, UK

The overall median Gender Pay Gap is 21.6%.  
The Gender Pay Gap for companies operating in  
the Professional, Scientific and Technical sector  
is 22.4% (median, ONS 20172). The UK average is 
18.4% overall (median, ONS 20172).

Pay Gap
Bonus Gap

Mean
14.4%
49.1%

Median
21.6%
56.0%

Symantec, UK, quartiles

Bonus participation rate

96.1%

Male

96.6%

Female

48%
Female

Band A
quartile of  
lowest earners

25%
Female

29%
Female

29%
Female

Band B

quartile of lower 
middle earners

Band C

quartile of upper 
middle earners

Band D
quartile of  

highest earners

2  https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/bulletins/annualsurveyofhoursandearnings/2017provisionaland2016revisedresults

Understanding  
Our Results

Two-thirds of our UK workforce is 
male. As the quartile figures show, 
the primary reason for the gender pay 
gap at Symantec is due to the lack of 
females in leadership roles. Men are also 
over-represented in sales, engineering, 
and technical roles. Women are 
comparatively over-represented at more 
junior levels and in supporting functions. 

In summary, more men than women are in senior roles, 
resulting in a gender pay gap. We are aware that it will take 
time to work through the cycle of change in our workforce 
and for the actions below to have an impact.

Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) strategy, 
as detailed in our Corporate Responsibility Report, 
specifically targets these areas for improvement at the 
corporate level.

FY2020 Diversity  
and Education Goals

Improving the gender profile of our workforce is part of our 
wider DEI strategy at Symantec. As we change the game in 
cyber defence, we need a rich balance of perspectives, reflecting 
diversity, equity, inclusion, and education. To that end, we have 
four Global People Goals to help build a winning culture:

1. 

2. 

Increase the percentage of women in the 
Symantec workforce globally by 15% 
Increase the number of women in 
leadership to 30% by up-leveling our 
performance management processes, 
developing more robust and inclusive 
leadership capabilities through training 
and immersion programs, and recruiting 
top female talent across industries  

3. 

Invest $20M to excite, engage, and 
educate one million students in science, 
technology, engineering, and math 
(STEM)—with an emphasis on computer 
science and cyber security —through 
global non-profit partnerships 

4.  Limit voluntary attrition to no more than 
3% for employees receiving the highest 
performance assessments 

Our actions to close the gap,  
now and in the future

Mitigating Unconscious Bias throughout the Talent Pipeline and Workplace

Addressing our subconscious judgements and behaviours is a crucial lever in meeting our diversity goals. 
To promote inclusive thinking and create a level playing field, we piloted several Unconscious Bias training 
programs that combined in-person and webinar sessions around the world. We also established new standards of 
performance, and added diversity measurements across Talent Acquisition and Talent Development.

In FY17–18, Symantec: 

 

•  Declared an external commitment 

for internal action through the 
CEO Action for Diversity &  
Inclusion Pledge

•  Established a leadership role 

with the Gender Working Group 
for the CEO Action for Diversity & 
Inclusion Pledge

•  Completed Unconscious Bias 

training for recruiters and human 
resource business partners, 
company-wide

•  Completed Unconscious Bias 

training for 200+ managers from 
Fall 2016 to Spring 2017 
 

•  Embedded diversity messaging in 
our Performance and Pay training 
and New Manager training
•  Delivered training for our 

executive leadership team, 
including diversity and inclusion 
messaging in all new corporate 
training modules

•  Conducted Employee Focus 
Groups around diversity & 
inclusion to help inform new 
strategies and initiatives

•  Established Corporate Diversity & 
Inclusion metrics dashboards for 
organisational health review and 
talent acquisition reporting

By the end of FY19, we will roll out our Unconscious Bias training to all 
employees to help foster an inclusive culture of acceptance and respect.  
Further, we will launch an Inclusive Leadership Training Module in April 2018  
to educate employees on how to identify workplace biases, understand the 
impact of decision-making within the talent lifecycle, and provide tools to  
create more diverse teams.

Beyond this training, we are taking additional steps to review our existing 
recruitment process to ensure:

•  We have diverse candidate pools and diverse interview panels
•  Our executive recruiting process takes into account these goals
•  Our job descriptions are gender-neutral

Our actions to close the gap,  
now and in the future

Inspiring women and girls in STEM

The number of female STEM 
graduates in the UK is on the rise 
but male numbers are growing 
faster3. This has meant a decrease 
in the relative number of females 
competing for STEM opportunities.

Our focus is not just on hiring more females, but to 
inspire girls to take up STEM subjects so that we can 
grow our pipeline of female talent over the long term. 
We believe it is never too early to engage with students 
about cyber security and, as such, we have formed 
local partnerships with girls’ schools to encourage 
STEM participation.

3  https://www.wisecampaign.org.uk/resources/2018/02/core-stem-graduates-2017

In addition to actively participating in various DEI conferences 
and recruiting events, specific activities include: 

•  Cyber Workforce Alliance recently launched in the UK to 

provide mentoring opportunities to university students

•  TeenTech designed to introduce students to the wide 

range of STEM career possibilities including through the 
profiling of successful female STEM students

•  Business in the Community partnering with the Reading 

Girls School
Inspirefest supporting women in technology across Europe

• 

We will also look to utilise the UK Apprenticeship Levy to 
support foundational skills development within a diverse 
group of apprentices.  

Our actions to close the gap,  
now and in the future

Retaining our current female workforce

Retaining our current female population is vital to improving our gender pay gap. 
Our flexible working and enhanced maternity pay policies help us support a culture 
where women can thrive, innovate, and have equal opportunities. Xcellerate is 
our program for identifying high performing talent within Symantec, and we have 
focused on increasing female representation in this program in support of our goal 
of 30% of leadership roles being held by women by 2020.

The Symantec Women’s Action Network (SWAN) plays an 
integral role for women at Symantec by building cultural 
awareness and providing opportunities to serve as cultural 
community ambassadors, mentor females in cyber security, 
volunteer, and be advocates. We are proud to be a founding 
signatory of the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP), 
applying and sharing best practices as part of the world’s 
leading global dialogues on gender equality.

We are also involved in: 

•  Actively seeking more diverse inputs when  

designing business processes, to ensure they work  
for all colleagues

•  Reviewing learning opportunities to ensure they  

are distributed fairly and equally across teams 

•  Building a Diversity Council to help guide 

organisational change and help provide focus to 
diversity and inclusion initiatives across the business

At Symantec, we are passionate 
about our mission to keep the world’s 
information safe and as a result, we 
deliver on it better than anyone else in 
the cyber security industry. 

Our company was founded on innovation. We believe that 
innovation is born when people with diverse perspectives, 
experiences, and cultures come together, turning dreams 
and ideas into game-changing solutions. 

Championing diversity, equity and inclusion is not just “the 
right thing to do”— our business success depends on it.

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

