The Human Resources Department 
The Vale Academy  
Wilbury Drive 
Dunstable 
LU5 4QP 
 

 

        
Gender Pay Report  
 
The Shared Learning Trust is an equal opportunities employer, which supports the fair treatment of all staff, 
irrespective of gender, through our transparent and rigorous policies and procedures.  
 
For the pay period containing the ‘snapshot’ date of 31 March 2017, The Shared Learning Trust has a mean 
gender pay gap of 18% and a median gender pay gap of 30%. 
 
The Shared Learning Trust has already taken a number of proactive measures to close the gender pay gap: 
 

  We  offer  a  range  of  flexible  working  options  for  our  staff,  to  help  balance  work  and  home  life 

commitments, including caring responsibilities. 

  We actively encourage female colleagues to return to work following maternity leave.  The trust provides 

enhanced pay benefits whilst staff are on maternity leave. 

  We recognise that male colleagues may also wish access to flexible working, and may wish to be more 
actively involved in family care responsibilities. The trust’s flexible working policies are therefore open to 
all employees regardless of gender or personal circumstances. 

  We have introduced a new Shared Parental Leave policy, which allows fathers (or partners) access to 
the same level of enhanced pay during Shared Parental Leave, as a woman taking maternity leave would 
be entitled to receive. 

  We are continually reviewing our policies on maternity, paternity and adoption leave  

 

For  teaching  staff,  the  trust  uses  pay  scales  that  are  union  agreed  and  that  are  aligned  to  the  School 
Teachers’ Pay and Conditions document. For non-teaching staff, NJC (National Joint Council) pay scales 
are followed.  
 
Although female representation in the top quartile is proportionally larger than male, the trust is also acutely 
aware that females fill many of the posts in the lower quartile.  Many of these roles are support functions 
such as Lunch Time Supervisors and Cleaning Operatives. The Shared Learning Trust will only recruit with 
integrity, always seeking the best person for the role, regardless of their gender.  
 
All positions within the trust are evaluated to ensure fair pay is sought with no gender bias.  
 
No bonuses were paid to any member of staff within the Trust.  
 

Pay Quartiles – How many men and women  
are in each quarter of the employees payroll.  

Male 

Female 

Top quartile 

Upper middle quartile 

Lower middle quartile 

Lower quartile 

 
 
Kevin Martin   
HR Director  

40% 

35% 

23% 

17% 

60% 

65%  

77% 

83%  

The Shared Learning Trust is a company limited by guarantee, and an exempt charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011 

Registered Office: The Chalk Hills Academy, Leagrave High Street, Luton, Beds, LU4 0NE Telephone: 01582 211211 

Registered in England and Wales.    Registered Company Number: 05958361    

thesharedlearningtrust.org.uk  

