Gender 
Pay Gap 
Report
2018

What we stand for

2

What we stand for

We welcome the Government’s move to increase transparency around pay. It encourages us all to work harder and 
take stock of the progress we’re making. 
This report explains the positive actions we’re taking to achieve our gender equality goals, as well as the nature of  
the gender pay gap itself. 
Creating diverse and balanced teams is not just a moral imperative, it is a business imperative. It is proven that  
gender-balanced companies perform better financially, are more effective and deliver more innovative products  
and services. To help our clients reach millions of different people every day, we need our people to reflect the 
society that we represent too.
This belief drives our commitment to build a diverse, balanced organisation with an inclusive culture where everyone 
has the opportunity to succeed, regardless of gender or background.
We’ve already taken positive steps in this space, and while our overall median gender pay gap of 14.1% is lower than 
the national average of 18.4%*, we know we have more to do. 
At the top of our agenda, we’re committed to increasing female representation across our most senior roles to match 
the levels we already see lower down the business.
That’s why we have set ourselves the goal to have an equal gender balance at all levels of our business by the end of 2019. 
This is a good move for us, our industry and for society.

Anna Moulton
Global HR Director 
Dentsu Aegis Network

Stef Calcraft
Executive Chairman 
Dentsu Aegis Network, UK&I

* Office of National Statistics national 
median gender pay gap 2017

Where we’re at

3

Where we’re at

Hourly pay gap

Median difference 

14.1%

Mean difference 

26.1%

Percentage of employees who received bonus pay

36.6%

32.8%

Bonus pay gap

Median difference 

32.2%

Mean difference 

78.8%

Proportion of men and women in the different 
pay bands (pay quartiles)

How we calculate the mean and 
median difference

Upper

Mean difference

62.8%

47.4%

46.1%

45.6%

Upper middle

Lower middle

Lower

37.2%

52.6%

53.9%

54.4%

No. of male 
employees

Mean male average pay

The difference =

Mean  
pay gap

No. of female 
employees

Mean female average pay

Median difference

Lowest pay

Median

Highest pay

The difference =

Median pay gap

Note: These figures include all our UK based employees, not just those we are required to report on. 
Individual figures for our two legal entities with more than 250 employees – Dentsu Aegis London Ltd (DALL) 
and Dentsu Aegis Manchester Ltd (DAML) – are on page 7.

Why are these our figures?

4

Why are these our figures?

More men in  
senior roles

While overall we have an equal number of men and women working here, 
we know that our gender pay gap is largely driven by more men having 
progressed into senior roles than women in the past. In addition, our figures 
include a number of senior roles which have a global leadership remit which 
extends beyond the UK. Many of the senior leadership roles also come with 
higher bonus targets and are eligible for long-term incentives. As we have 
more men at the top, this impacts our bonus pay gap.

More women  

working part-time

Our hourly pay gap figures take part-time pay into consideration by 
calculating it as though these people worked full time. Bonus pay on  
the other hand doesn’t do this – it includes actual bonuses paid as  
opposed to what the bonus payment would have been if our part-time 
employees worked full time. As most of our part-time employees are 
women, this impacts our bonus pay gap too.

Digital  
skills gap

The more digital our business has become, the more difficult we’ve found 
it to hire women into specialist senior digital roles which are typically 
higher paid. This, we know, is mainly due to fewer women studying science, 
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects and a reason 
why there aren’t gender balanced candidate pools for such roles. 

Spotlight on our people

Karen Harte
Global Head of M&A Integration

“It’s not every company that enables you to create your dream  
job and make it work around your family commitments. I joined in 
2008 as M&A Controller and earned a promotion, while pregnant,  
to Global Head of M&A in 2012. 
My maternity leave gave me time to reflect on how I wanted my career 
to progress and I suggested my current role to my boss. He thought it 
was a great idea. So not only was I moving my career in a new direction, 
there was no blueprint for it, so I could create a role to fit in three days 
per week. As the role grew and I settled into life as a working mum, I was 
happy to increase my working pattern to a four and later five-day week. 
I now have two boys aged three and five and my work life balance is 
pretty good. I work full time but I do it in a way that works for both 
my job – managing different time zones and the peaks and troughs 
of project work; and for my family – working one or two days a week 
from home to fit in some school runs and family meal times, which are 
really important.”

“ I joined in 2008 as M&A Controller and 
earned a promotion, while pregnant,  
to Global Head of M&A in 2012”

How we’re closing the gap

5

50/50

gender split by  
the end of 2019

Launched in 2015 and 
70% of senior participants 
received a promotion in 2017

Promoting and celebrating 
equal opportunity across 
our business

How we’re closing 
the gap

Here’s how we’re working to reach our goal to reduce 
our gap and have an equal gender split across all 
levels of our organisation by the end of 2019: 

Developing female talent
While we’re great at employing equal numbers of men and 
women across our organisation, we’re part of an industry where 
gender imbalance occurs at the most senior positions across 
the business, with fewer women represented at this level. 
That’s why, in 2015, we launched our first Women & Leadership 
programme, which offers women at all levels of our 
organisation tailored leadership development. Now in its third 
year, the successful programme saw more than 70% of the 
senior participants receive a promotion in 2017.

Championing gender equality
The founding members of our Women & Leadership programme 
played an instrumental role in driving our commitment to 
achieve gender parity in leadership roles. Many of them now 
form part of the team which pioneered our employee network 
for gender equality, called ONE.
ONE promotes and celebrates equal opportunity across  
our business, through talent and leadership development,  
a structured mentoring scheme and support for men and 
women at every stage of parenthood. 
ONE also works with our clients and partners to tackle 
unconscious bias and gender stereotypes in advertising, using 
our strength as one of the world’s biggest advertising groups. 

Rachel McDonald
Managing Director 
Carat Manchester

“I started my career as a media planner and buyer in London and Sydney 
before I moved home to Manchester in 2001. I became Client Services 
Director at MediaVest Manchester, now Carat Manchester after being 
acquired by Dentsu Aegis Network. My career really took off within this 
ambitious and entrepreneurial agency culture. 
I’m a proud mum of two wonderful boys and I was actually promoted 
during my second period of maternity leave. Now I’m leading the largest 
media agency outside London. Balancing my career with family life is 
challenging, but it’s never diminished the opportunities made available 
to me. I work a four-day week and I recently took part in our Women & 
Leadership programme. It was really insightful and has given me new 
clarity to unlocking the full power of my personal leadership style. 
As sponsor of our Diversity & Inclusion board, I’m passionate about 
finding new ways for our business to attract and support talent from 
all walks of life and at every level in our business. I want to make 
sure everyone feels the opportunities this business offers are both 
accessible and inspiring. Just as they have been for me.”

“ Balancing my career with family 
life is challenging, but it’s never 
diminished the opportunities  
made available to me”

How we’re closing the gap

6

Equality when hiring
We‘re evolving our recruitment approach to ensure that we remove 
any unconscious bias in the hiring process. 
To help us attract more diverse talent for entry-level roles, we’ve 
removed minimum qualifications, eliminated CVs at the shortlist 
stage, introduced mobile game assessments and video interviews. 
At senior levels, we aim for gender-balanced shortlists and we 
work hard to ensure that we eliminate unfair practices through 
balanced panel interviews. All our people managers, recruiters  
and many of our senior managers have completed unconscious bias 
training and we’re committed to continuing investing in this area. 

Supporting our working parents
There is more to life than work, but it’s a big part of life, and can be 
harder to juggle when you add children into the mix. To help support 
and retain our female talent who are parents, we have a number 
of family-friendly benefits to ensure that all working parents know 
they are valued and supported when they need it most. This includes 
flexible working, coaching before and after maternity, adoption or 
shared parental leave, returnships and fixed-term contracts. 
As part of our drive towards a more equal, inclusive and diverse 
workplace, we also took the proud step last year of enhancing  
our shared parental leave to 20 weeks paid, matching our  
existing offering for maternity and adoption leave.

Empowering all our people
We also believe that to get the best out of people, they should  
be free to work in the way that best suits them. Therefore we offer 
flexible and agile working to everyone to help positively manage 
their personal lives along with their responsibilities at work. 
Our ambition is to be focused on outcomes rather than 
presenteeism, so we expect the same quality and quantity of  
work to be delivered, but are empowering our people to decide 
where and when they do it.

Richard Davis
Director of Strategy Development  
Global Clients

“I have an extremely talented and diverse team, with five different 
nationalities, equally split between males and females. Each of us 
comes from very different walks of life and I believe our success 
is directly related to the richness of our experiences. Our diversity 
influences our personal and professional priorities and, for me,  
it means being agile to get the balance right for everyone. 
For example, when one of my key team members requested flexible 
working after coming back from maternity, I could see this was the 
right thing for her and the business. 
As a team, we’ve now fully embraced this way of working which 
also allowed me to take advantage of our amazing Shared Parental 
Leave policy and spend 12 weeks with my second born. It was 
an incredible experience that I highly recommend and made me 
appreciate new aspects of life. It’s brought me even closer to my 
wife, as I now have experienced first-hand how complex it is to run  
a house with a baby and a toddler running around the place.”

Nadia Khashem 
Planning Manager  
Amplifi

“A couple of years after graduating with a degree in Marketing and 
Communications, I wanted to put my skills to better use and find a 
company that would invest in my potential. Enter Dentsu Aegis! I had 
no experience of media planning but I was really attracted by the 
combination of its structure and a clear development pathway. 
Over the past five years I’ve had plenty of opportunities to 
progress. Our Women & Leadership programme helped me build 
my confidence and personal skillset as well as meet other women 
across our group who share similar ambitions. I’m also able to 
maintain a healthier work/life balance by working flexibly one day  
a week at home, and by taking advantage of the core hours to start  
or finish my days earlier.
Now, as Planning Manager in our media investment division, I manage 
several accounts providing innovative solutions to meet our clients’ 
marketing objectives. And I love it.”

flexible

agile

Breakdown by legal entity

7

Breakdown by legal entity

The gender pay figures for Dentsu Aegis London Ltd (DALL) and Dentsu Aegis Manchester Ltd (DAML) can be seen below. 

Dentsu Aegis London Ltd (DALL) 

Hourly pay gap

Percentage of employees who received bonus pay

Bonus pay gap

Median difference 
14.5%

Mean difference 

27.4%

35.3%

31.1%

Median difference 
33.3%

Mean difference 

72.7%

Proportion of men and women in the different pay bands (pay quartiles)

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

45.3%

54.7%

45.0%

55.0%

47.2%

52.8%

62.1%

37.9%

Dentsu Aegis Manchester Ltd (DAML) 

Hourly pay gap

Percentage of employees who received bonus pay

Bonus pay gap

Median difference 

1.8%

Mean difference 

20.7%

46.0%

48.6%

Median difference 
20.0%

Mean difference 
58.5%

Proportion of men and women in the different pay bands (pay quartiles)

Lower

Lower middle

Upper middle

Upper

53.3%

46.7%

46.2%

53.8%

49.5%

50.5%

55.4%

44.6%

