Jamie’s Italian  
Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Jamie’s Italian 

Our Gender Pay Gap Report 2017
At the Jamie’s Italian we are proud of our passionate, skilled and diverse team of individuals.
We  remain  committed  to  attracting  and  retaining  the  very  best  talent  and  we  believe  in  creating  job  opportunities  for 
everyone, regardless of gender. This is why we continue to build a culture that values diversity and one which embraces 
differences as strengths. 
We love to work with a wide variety of people, who we can nurture and reward for their unique talents.  Why? Because quite 
simply, People are our most important ingredient!

Gender Pay Gap - what is it and what do I need to know?

Under the UK Government’s new gender pay gap regulations, from April 2018, all companies with 250 or more employees 
must publish a gender pay report revealing average pay information for men and women.
The gender pay gap measures the difference between men and women’s average hourly pay across the whole organisation, 
regardless of job. This is different to ‘equal pay’ which means that men and women who carry out the same or similar jobs 
roles must be paid the same. We are confident that men and women are paid equally for the same job within Jamie’s Italian.

How do we measure a pay gap?

The mean gender pay gap shows the difference in the 
average hourly rate of pay between men and women in a 
company.

lined  up 

If  all  our  employees 
were 
in  a 
female line and a male 
line,  in  order  of  pay 
from 
to 
lowest 
highest,  the  median 
gender  pay 
gap 
compares  the  pay  of 
the 
the 
in 
middle  of  their 
line 
and  the  pay  of  the 
male  of  the  middle 
their line.

female 

Our Gender Pay Gap

The Gender Pay Gap
At  the  Jamie’s  Italian,  our  overall  mean  Gender  Pay 
Gap is 11.9%. This is below the national average mean 
pay gap of 17.4%

The Gender Bonus Pay Gap
The Jamie’s Italian mean bonus gap is 22.1%.  
In 2017, we paid women 0.9% more bonus than 
men. 

Pay quartiles
The figures below are based on 2,211 employees split across the following quartiles:

Band A 
Lowest Pay

Band C
Upper Middle 
Pay

Band B 
Lower Middle 
Pay

Band D
Highest Pay

% of women and men receiving a bonus

The Median Gender Pay Gap 
Our median gender pay gap is 15% which is below the national 
average of 18.4%

Explaining our Gender Pay Gap

We do not have an equal pay issue, but we do have an imbalance in gender split.  
Our gender pay gap is primarily as a result of the large proportion of males working within the group which is typical within a hospitality industry.  
This is evident with such departments as kitchen and bar being heavily driven by male applicants, which restricts the pool of employees available 
for us to recruit from.
All salaries/pay rates are banded within our restaurants regardless of gender which ensures that there is an equal balance across all roles in terms 
of pay.
Our gender pay and bonus gap is also primarily due to there being a greater proportion of men in our leadership team. However the % of females 
receiving a bonus is 0.9% higher.

Our plan of action

At the Jamie’s Italian we are taking measures to address the gender imbalance as part of People Strategy for 2018.  We are looking forward to focusing on 
the following areas to make further improvements:

Attracting New Talent:
This has always been a focus for us, and we love discovering new talent to join our family! We will continue to promote equal 
opportunities through recruitment practices and in addition to this we will also be running a female chef recruitment campaign to 
bridge the imbalance within our kitchens. 

Driving Development and Succession Planning
We have an imbalance between males and females within our leadership team.  For 2018, supporting the development of females 
within our senior team, is top priority. Our aim is to develop and encourage more females to move into Operations roles, Head of 
Department's and the Executive team, ensuring all roles are attractive, and provide equal opportunities for all genders.

Our Diversity Initiative:
Looking beyond gender, we are also working with Jamie Oliver Ltd on diversity initiatives to celebrate all employees and 
their achievements.  This is an ongoing programme that addresses equality, diversity and gender imbalance within the 
entire business.

To access the full report 

Click here to access the full report: https://www.gov.uk/government/news/gender-pay-gap-reporting-goes-live

I confirm that the Gender Pay and Bonus Gap calculations and the data provided for Jamie’s Italian Ltd are accurate.

       Stacy Schapira

               Chief People Officer

         April 2018

        Jonathan Knight
                  CEO

               April 2018

