The Oratory Schools Association Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.  The Gender pay gap is defined as the difference in 
median pay between men and women. 

The Oratory Schools Association consist of The Oratory School, a Roman Catholic day and boarding 
school for boys from 11-18, with approximately 145 staff, and The Oratory Preparatory School, a 
Roman Catholic day and boarding school for boys and girls from 3 to 13, with 110 staff. 

The data is taken from April 2017 and is published on our website and submitted to the government.  
The Office for National Statistics shows the national pay gap has fallen from 27.5% in 1997 to 18.4% 
in 2017, but remains positive in value – meaning that on average men are paid more than women. 

 
Our Pay Gap results: 

Mean gap = 20% 

Median gap = 30% 

Pay Quartiles 
Upper 
Upper Middle  
Lower Middle 
Lower 

67% 
32% 
31% 
40% 

Male 

Female 

33% 
68% 
69% 
60% 

 

The mean shows the overall size of our gender pay gap is 20%, so men are paid more than women. 
This is in line with the national average, but is still a gap that needs addressing.   

When looking at the pay quartiles, the results show an imbalance in the pay for women in the upper 
pay quartile only.  This is partly due to the fact that historically it was normal to find a greater 
number of male teachers in an all-boys school. As at April 2017, there are more males employed at 
the Oratory School (which is an all-boys school), and it is evident that these are employed in the 
more senior roles.   

We employ staff on a diverse range of working arrangements and patterns, in order to attract skilled 
working parents.  More often it is women that are the primary care givers to most children, and the 
results support that we employ a higher proportion of women across the Association, particularly in 
the Domestic department and as Teaching Assistants.  Out of 255 total staff, 58% are female.   

 

 

Actions: 

We are implementing a number of actions intended to address the imbalance and reduce the gender 
pay gap, including a review of recruitment processes that will include monitoring the number of men 
and women who apply for and are appointed to jobs.  We also need to look at our flexible working 
practices so we can ensure that care can be distributed more evenly between men and women, and 
we encourage more males into roles that may be more flexible, such as term time only roles.   

There will also be a review of the performance management system, to help with identifying 
succession planning, with a focus on increasing the number of women into more senior roles. 

As a longer term measure we are planning to implement a new pay policy and review the whole pay 
grade system for roles within The Oratory Schools Association to ensure a more consistent, open 
approach.  This will form part of our people strategy to help improve our recruitment and retention 
of staff as it will be easier to identify the link between development objectives with salary.   

We expect the changes to have an impact within 2-3 years. 

 

Martin Halsall 

Bursar  

March 2018 

