 

Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

 

 

 

1.  Background 

 

1.1   The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) 

Regulations 2017 require specified public authorities with 250 or more 
employees, including local authorities, to publish a report of Gender 
Pay each year. 

1.2 

This report is based on the sample date of 31 March 2017.   

1.3 

The following groups are included: 

  Employees (those with a contract of employment) 

  Workers and agency workers (those with a contract to do work or 

provide services) 

  Some self-employed people (where they have to personally perform 

the work). 

1.4   For the purpose of the report, data has been gathered from the 

following sources: 

  The Council’s Payroll and Pensions service, for information about 

employees 

 

 

  The Council’s Procurement service, for information about self-

employed people and workers 

  Matrix, the Council’s designated neutral vendor, for information 

about agency workers. 

 
1.5  Contributing factors to a gender pay gap can include:  

  any areas or occupations where either female or male employees 

historically have been underrepresented 

  child birth. 

1 

there is an average pay gap of over 10% between men and women, 
which then increases significantly if a woman has children, so that a 
woman’s hourly pay can be around a third below a man’s hourly pay by 
the time the first child is 12 years old. 

 
1.6  On the issue of child birth, the Institute for Fiscal Studies reported that 
  
  
  
  
 
1.7  
  
  
  
 

It is important to note the difference between the Gender Pay gap and 
Equal Pay.  Equal Pay concerns the pay differences between men and 
women for doing the same or similar jobs or work of equal value.  
Gender Pay is concerned with the gap between the average salaries of  
men and women in the organisation as a whole. 

 

2 

 

 

 

Gender Pay Information for 31 March 2017 

2.1 

Total Number of Employees 

Table 1: Total number of employees in the group 

Category  No of Employees 

% of Employees 

Male 

1693 

Female 

3047 

Total 

4740 

Notes: 

35.7 

64.3 

 

  The Council has almost a third more female employees than male 

employees, which is not uncommon in local authorities. 

  One reason for the higher number of female employees is of particular 

significance.  The Council has retained most of the female dominated job 
roles at the lower end of the pay scale, such as care assistants and 
cleaners whilst the equivalent male-dominated roles (refuse collection, 
street cleaning, etc) have been transferred to partner organisations or to 
wholly owned trading companies (LATCOs). 

2.2  Mean and Median Average Pay 

Table 2: Mean and Median Average Pay 

Category 

Male Mean Hourly Pay 

Female Mean Hourly Pay 

Amount 

£17.54 

£16.02 

2 

Mean Gender Pay Gap 

8.7% 

Male Median Hourly Pay 

£16.70 

Female Median Hourly Pay 

£15.08 

Median Gender Pay Gap 

9.7% 

 

 

Definitions:   

  The Mean is the average salary, calculated by totalling all the salaries in 

the group and dividing by the total number of employees in the group 

  The Median is the mid-point salary, calculated by listing all the salaries in 

numerical order and finding the middle salary (eg. in a list of 250 employee 
salaries, the median is the 125th salary in the list).   

 

Notes: 

  The average mean hourly rate for male employees in the organisation is 

£1.50 per hour higher than for female employees, giving an average mean 
gender pay gap of 8.7% in favour of male employees. 

  The average median hourly rate for male employees is £1.60 per hour 

higher than for female employees, giving an average median gender pay 
gap of 9.7% in favour of female employees. 

  One important reason for these gaps between male and female pay is 

highlighted in the notes to Table 1.  The Council has retained most of the 
traditionally female-dominated job roles at the lower end of the pay scale.  
The impact of this is that not only are there significantly more female 
employees in the organisation but there are also more female employees 
at the lower end of the pay scale.   In addition, there are more female 
employees in part time roles.  These are notable reasons for both the 
lower average mean and median salaries for female employees and for 
the mean and median gender pay gap.  

  The introduction of the Real Living Wage for lower paid staff has increased 

pay for over 100 female employees, although this did not affect pay rates 
on 31 March 2017. 

 

It is also important to note that that this is not a comparison of like for like 
roles.  The Council uses a job evaluation scheme to rank all the jobs in the 
organisation and applies a points total to each role, which equates to a 
grade on the Council’s pay scale.  One of the benefits of job evaluation is 
that by applying an objective set of criteria to the job rather than to the 
employee, the danger of different rates of pay being applied to the same 
job on the basis of gender is greatly reduced. 

3 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.3  Pay Quartiles 

Table 3: Pay Quartiles 

Category 

Male Employees 
% 

Female Employees 
% 

Top Quartile 

41.3 

Upper Middle Quartile 

40.4 

Lower Middle Quartile 

31.5 

Lower Quartile 

29.6 

58.7 

59.6 

68.5 

70.4 

Definitions: 

 

 A Quartile is 25% of the employees in a group, so the lower quartile is the 
bottom 25% in terms of pay, the lower middle quartile is between 25% and 
50%, and so on. 

Notes: 

  The percentage of male employees in the top and upper middle quartiles 

is slightly higher than the total percentage of male employees in the 
organisation (4-5%), whilst the opposite is true for female employees. 

 

In the lower middle and lower quartiles, the situation is reversed. 

  Potential reasons for this are detailed in the notes for Table 2. 

  The percentage of female employees in the upper and upper middle 
quartiles, whilst not corresponding exactly to the total percentage of 
female employees in the Council, is close enough to suggest that there is 
not a significant problem with female representation in management roles. 

2.4  Bonus Pay 

Table 4: Bonus Pay 

Category 

Male Mean Bonus 

Female Mean Bonus 

Mean Bonus Pay Gap 

Amount 

£15.80 

£17.20 

-8.9% 

4 

Male Median Bonus 

Female Median Bonus 

Median Bonus Pay Gap 

£10.00 

£10.00 

0.0% 

Definitions: 

  The Council does not pay bonus in the traditional sense of the word.  

However, the definition of bonus for the purpose of the Regulations 
includes any payment relating to profit sharing, productivity, performance, 
incentive and commission, received in the form of cash or vouchers, which 
may include long service awards and other awards.  The information on 
bonus relates to long service awards and employee recognition awards 
(SHINEs). 

Notes: 

  The number of employees in receipt of an award that can be described as 
a ‘bonus’ is 1% of the total workforce for both male and female employees. 
More female employees have received such awards and at a higher level, 
which has led to a gender pay gap in favour of female employees. 

5 

 

 

 

 

