         Skip navigation  Home  Patients & visitors  Our services  Search  Help  Contact us  Terms and conditions  Accessibitity Page     Poole Hospital – NHS Foundation Trust     A  A  A      Search:           About us    What we do    Our values and aims    Our performance    Our healthcare community    Board of directors    Council of governors    Dorset's STP    Equality and diversity    Latest news    Publications    Policies and procedures    Information Governance      Patients & visitors    Getting here    Parking    Disabled access and support    Finding your way around    Visiting friends and relatives    Discharge services    A-Z of wards    Coming in as an inpatient    Coming in for day surgery    Outpatients clinics    Change your outpatient appt    Health Information Centre    Patient advice service    Patient safety plan    Preventing infections    Advance Care Plan      Our services    A-Z of services    Consultant directory    Private patient services      Support us    Join us as a member    Poole Hospital Charity    Poole Africa Link      Working for us    Nursing recruitment website    A theatre career    Job vacancies    Staff accommodation    Staff stories    Why work for us?    Volunteering    Work experience    LGBT group      Why choose us    Patient-centred care    First class services    Clean and safe    Our stunning location      Contact us    Telephone directory    Provide feedback on your care    Patient Advice Service (PALS)    HR contact details    Making a complaint    Share your positive feedback    Media enquiries      Health professionals    A-Z of services    Consultant directory    GP education programme    Advance Care Plan         You are here:    Home Page  About us  Equality and diversity          About us      What we do    Our values and aims    Our performance    Our healthcare community    Board of directors    Council of governors    Dorset's Sustainability and Transformation Plan (STP)    Equality and diversity    Latest news    Publications    Policies and procedures    Information Governance       Equality and diversity  Poole Hospital is committed to
equality and diversity, both as a healthcare organisation and as an
employer.  We work on a variety of fronts to implement
the provisions of the Equality Act 2010 across services and for our
staff, by ensuring our general public duties under the Equality Act
are met and form part of our good practice. We do this through
implementation of the NHS Equality Delivery System.  Equality, diversity, and human rights are also
promoted through the work of the equality and diversity group and
through the Poole Approach which
sets out our values and philosophy of care and is widely known and
embedded across the trust.  In line with the NHS Constitution, Poole
Hospital is committed to providing equal access to services that do
not discriminate on any of the protected characteristics of: age,
disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership,
pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief, sex and sexual
orientation. The trust opposes all forms of unlawful and unfair
discrimination, and is also firmly committed to equality of
employment.  Gender Pay Gap reporting  The trust reported its first Gender Pay Gap
report on 28 March 2018. The infographic, which shows our Gender
Pay Gap results and actions we are taking in relation to these, is here    A fair employer  The Workforce Race Equality Standard aims
to ensure race equality and fair treatment for black and minority
(BME) staff working across the NHS. This is a key part of our work
to progress equality for our staff.  You can find out more by reading:  Workforce Race Equality Standard report  Workforce Race Equality Standard appendix A  Workforce Race Equality Standard action plan  For more information visit www.england.nhs.uk/ourwork/gov/equality-hub/equality-standard/  Poole Hospital is proud to have been awarded the Jobcentre Plus
‘disability symbol’ in recognition of our commitment to equality
and fairness for prospective and current employees with
disability.  Read our summary statement for
meeting the public sector equality duties here and our statement on
equality objectives here .     You can read this year’s Equality and
Diversity report on the Trust’s workforce here       Useful links    Equality Act  NHS Equality Delivery System      More information   Please contact:  Marie Cleary Staff Experience Lead  Email:  marie.cleary@poole.nhs.uk  Tel: 01202 442820     Useful information   Disabled access and
support at Poole Hospital  Patient Advice &
Liaison Service (PALS)           Media area  Terms and conditions  Contact us  Help using this site   This website was kindly sponsored by the Poole Hospital League of Friends     Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust , Longfleet Road, Poole, Dorset BH15 2JB. Tel: 01202 665511  © Copyright Poole Hospital NHS Foundation Trust 2018.  Designed and developed by Merchant Marketing Group.     Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.    Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.     Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.   Browser does not support script.   