DHL GLOBAL FORWARDING UK
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

March 2018

DHL Global Forwarding – Excellence. Simply delivered.
dhl.com

DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report

2

DHL GLOBAL FORWARDING UK
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

At DHL Global Forwarding UK, we believe that it is important to 
have a diverse and balanced workforce. We believe that success 
comes from the commitment and energy of our people, and 
through creating an inclusive working environment where 
everyone can give their best and make a difference.

Legislation now requires public and private companies with more than 250 

employees to publish the average hourly pay difference between male and female 

employees. The regulations, which were introduced in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender 

Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, offer an opportunity for businesses to 

benchmark their pay structures against others and to analyse them in detail.

This report focuses on full-pay relevant employees (‘relevant employees’) who work 

for DHL Global Forwarding across the UK. Our analysis is based on data as at 5 April 

2017 and covers 1,138 employees who are classified as relevant employees. Any 

relevant employees who were on any form of leave or reduced pay at the snapshot 

date were excluded from the analysis, as per legislative guidelines.

I confirm that DHL Global Forwarding UK’s data has been calculated in accordance 

with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 

Regulations 2017.

Michael Young

Chief Executive Officer

DHL Global Forwarding UK & Ireland

DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report

3

OVERVIEW

At DHL Global Forwarding UK, the difference between our mean hourly rate of pay for 
male full-pay relevant employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees is 17% 
or £20.03 per hour paid to males, versus £16.67 per hour to females. This represents a 
£3.36 difference in the hourly rate between the genders.

The gap has narrowed slightly, representing a 1% reduction when compared to analysis 

using 2016 data, which showed that at 18%, the DHL Global Forwarding UK gender pay 

gap was on par with the national average.  

The difference between our median hourly rate of pay for male full-pay relevant 

employees and that of female full-pay relevant employees is 9%, or £14.70 per hour paid 

to males, versus £13.35 per hour to females. 

This demonstrates a positive trend when compared to analysis performed on our 2016 

data, which showed a 14% difference in our median hourly rate of pay.

GENDER PAY AND BONUS GAP

Difference between males and females 

Mean average

Median middle

Gender pay gap

Gender bonus gap

17%

13%

9%
9%

DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report

4

PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING A 
2016 BONUS

Bonus received

No bonus

The number of female relevant employees who we paid a bonus to, versus the total number 

of female employees, is 27%. The number of male relevant employees who we paid a bonus 

to, versus the total number of male employees, is 35%. 

The difference between the mean bonus that we paid to male relevant employees and that 

we paid to female relevant employees is 13%, or £9,872.73 versus £8,627.18.

The difference between the median bonus that we paid to male relevant employees and that 

we paid to female relevant employees is 9%, or £4,300.00 versus £3,902.00. 

When compared to data from 2016, the gap has considerably decreased between the 

genders; notably there has been an increase in the median bonus that we paid to relevant 

female workers.

DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report

5

PAY QUARTILES – MEDIAN 

The charts below show the proportion of males and females in each pay quartile. 

Each quartile contains either 284 or 285 employees.

LOWER QUARTILE

LOWER MIDDLE QUARTILE

52%

48%

31%

69%

UPPER MIDDLE QUARTILE

UPPER QUARTILE

29%

71%

27%

73%

Female

Male

DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report
DHL Global Forwarding UK | Gender Pay Gap Report

6
6

KEY FINDINGS

CLOSING THE GENDER PAY GAP

•

The majority of DHL Global Forwarding UK employees 

The Freight Forwarding industry remains, in many ways, a 

occupying positions at all levels are male (739 male 

traditional lifetime career industry. Many employees in 

employees versus 399 female employees).

senior roles have longevity in post and are male.  

•

The overall gender pay gap (GPG) is significantly 

This unbalance of the genders at senior levels undoubtedly 

smaller in the lower paid quartiles; the biggest pay gap 

affects the GPG and the bonus gap for our whole business. 

is in the upper quartile, which represents the highest 

However, we are not content with this situation at DHL 

paid group.

Global Forwarding UK. We are, therefore, focusing on 

both long term and short term steps to close the pay gap.

• Men occupy the majority of senior roles at DHL Global 

Forwarding UK, therefore the top earners, who 

The overall GPG in the lower three quartiles is significantly 

dominate the upper quartiles, are male. This also 

smaller than the overall gap, with a median gap of 2% in 

affects the number of females eligible for bonus.

the lower three quartiles and a mean gap of 1.2%. In the 

short term we will be focusing on closing this small gap. 

This will be achieved by driving more transparency and 

measures of the GPG in reward processes, such as annual 

reviews, plus reviewing reward data by branch location 

and grouping different, but similar, roles with a generic 

role title to enable more comparisons to take place in 

order to ensure equality. We will also focus on the take up 

of additional pay elements at more junior levels, such as 

standby and call out payments.

Longer term, and affecting the upper quartiles, we will be 

focusing on developing our female employees to prepare 

them for stepping up into senior roles. For example, we 

have used a DHL Top Women programme and will 

continue with programmes designed to develop females.  

We are also focusing on mentoring females in Station 

Manager roles in order to support their career progression.

DHL Global Forwarding (UK) Limited

Eastworth House

Eastworth Road

Chertsey

Surrey KT16 8SH
dhl.com

valid: 03/2018 
Mat. No. DGFUK2018/1 

