Open GI Ltd

Gender Pay Gap

2017

Contents:

Introduction 
Key gender pay data 
Understanding our pay gap 

3
4
5

2

Introduction

Gender pay gap

Open GI understands the importance of having a diverse and inclusive workforce that values 
individuals for their talent and potential, regardless of whether they are a man or a woman.  It 
goes without saying, however that Open GI’s approach to people extends far beyond gender 
equality. Open GI has a deep respect for its people regardless of age, disability, gender 
reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex 
and sexual orientation. 

Our business success is all about our people and the unique set of skills each one brings to us. 
We are proud to be able to contribute towards making the world of work an inclusive and 
equitable place.

Open GI welcomes the Government’s new legislation, which requires employers with more than 
250 employees to publish their gender pay gap and we see many benefits in the creation of a 
more transparent culture of gender equality.

This report sets out our key gender pay data and gives you more information about our broad 
and positive approach to attracting, rewarding and recognising talent.

3

Key Gender Pay Data

Our data has been prepared in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Information) 
Regulations 2017 and the Equality Act 2010 (specific Duties and Public Authorities) 
Regulations 2017.  

The snapshot date for salaries is 5 April 2017.

The period used for calculating the bonus pay gap is 6 April 2016 to 5 April 2017.

As at 5 April 2017 there were 386 workers of which 384 were categorised as “relevant 
employees”.  
 
371 employees were classified as “full-pay relevant employees” and were used in the 
reporting of hourly pay gap statistics.

384

Relevant employees

371

Full-pay relevant employees

4

Understanding our pay gap

As is typical in the Information and Communication (IT) sector, Open GI employs more men than 
women, with a split of 66% males and 34% females as at 5 April 2017.  This demographic split is 
broadly reflected (within 5%) across the different pay quartiles showing that we generally reflect 
our employee demographic across all of our roles.  

Male

Female

6%

£1.14

Mean pay gap

1.5%

£0.24

Median pay gap

Our mean and median 
pay gaps are very 
low (6% and 1.5% 
respectively) especially 
when we look at how we 
compare as a business, 
to other companies in 
our sector.

5

Our tables show our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at the snapshot date of 5 
April 2017, and bonuses paid in the year to 5 April.

Our small gender pay gaps exists because jobs pay differently and the number of men and 
women doing those job roles varies. This is different to equal pay which refers to differences in 
pay between men and women doing similar jobs.

It is worth noting that we currently have more men than women at a senior level, but the 
proportion is reflective of the overall gender split of our employees at Open GI.

Our mean bonus data shows 
a negative pay gap, and that 
females received a higher mean 
bonus than males in the bonus 
year (£75.72)

£75.52
-2.1%

The median bonus pay 
gap was significantly 
lower than comparable 
organisations at 4.1% 
(£57.00).

6

Our bonuses were paid depending on the role an individual performed in the year with some 
receiving monthly and quarterly payments and others participating in an annual discretionary 
bonus scheme. 

Employees, regardless of their gender, were entitled to participate in the discretionary company 
bonus scheme which operated according to company performance and personal performance 
against clear and SMART objectives. There is no gender bias applied to the schemes that exist in 
Open GI Ltd and this is positively reflected in our pay gap results.

Open GI Ltd is pleased to report that it is a more equal environment than the majority of 
comparable organisations, especially considering that our sector is one which typically struggles 
to achieve gender equality. We are committed to continuing to do business in such a way that 
eliminates gender barriers and glass ceilings.

In everything we do, we want to promote equality and the importance of valuing people 
for their contribution, and not their gender identity or any other protected characteristic.

Chris Guillaume, Group CEO

7

Address
Buckholt Drive, Warndon, Worcester, WR4 9SR

Visit: www.opengi.co.uk

Open GI Ltd is a trading name of Open International Limited.
Registered in England No: 1519547  Registered address: Buckholt Drive, Warndon, Worcester, WR4 9SR
VAT Registered No: GB 100 1915 77

© Copyright Open International 2018

