 

 

Gender Pay Gap Report 

April 2017 

 

 

 

 

 

Summary 

Gender Pay Gap Report | 2 

We are committed to promoting equality of opportunity in all our working practices.  
 
Our aim is to ensure that our workforce reflects the diversity of our customers. Every employee is 
treated with dignity and respect and given the opportunity to reach their full potential for the mutual 
benefit of the business and our employees.   

As a Group, our philosophy is to ‘treat people as they want to be treated’ and everyone should apply this 
in their dealings with others.  

Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory 
calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is between their male and female employees. 

We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of men 
and women in our organisation; it will not involve publishing individual employee’s data. 

We are required to publish the results on our own website and a government website. We will do this 
within one calendar year of April 5th 2017. 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Calculations 

Gender Pay Gap Report | 3 

Gender Pay Reporting requires our organisation to make calculations based on employee gender. We will 
establish this by using our existing HR and payroll records.  The calculations are based on pay and 
bonus data at 5th April 2017. 

BONUS CALCULATIONS 

 BONUS GENDER PAY GAP AS A 

MEAN AVERAGE 
-17.1% 
         

 BONUS GENDER PAY GAP AS A 

MEDIAN AVERAGE 
21.8% 

 PROPORTION OF MEN AND 

WOMEN RECEIVING A BONUS 
83.8% of Females received a bonus 

85.5% of Males received a bonus 

 

 

Average gender pay gap as a mean average  

2.7% 
 

Average gender pay gap as a median average 

0% 
 
QUARTILES 

 

% of Females 

% of Males 

LOWER (LOWEST PAID) 

LOWER MIDDLE 

UPPER MIDDLE 

UPPER (HIGHEST PAID) 

51.9% 

45.5% 

53.5% 

42.5% 

48.1% 

54.5% 

46.5% 

57.5% 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Commentary 

Gender Pay Gap Report | 4 

In determining reward for our people, we consider a number of factors including the economy, company 
performance and future projections along with external benchmarking within our industry.  We aim to 
recognise our people through base pay, bonus schemes, a range of competitive benefits and a number 
of various policies.   

It is important to note that the figures contained in this report reflect the whole of Picturehouse’s 
workforce and are different to Equal Pay which relates to individuals working in similar roles.  Therefore, 
any pay gaps should not be interpreted as differences in pay for the same or similar roles.  

This is the first time we have published our gender pay report and the details are set-out below.  

Picturehouse has a gender pay gap of 2.71%, which is very low in comparison to the national average of 
18%. In the main, we have a set pay structure which follows the statutory minimum wage structures 
however, we pay above the statutory minimium rates of pay in all respects.  And, importantly, our pay 
structure is fair and robust and applies regardless of gender.  Furthermore,  our overall gender make-up 
across the business is healthy, having 51.6% male employees and 48.4% female employees.   

Our mean average bonus gender pay gap is -17.1%  and this is due to a higher proportion of women in 
senior roles, when considering those receiving bonus.   

NB: The bonus figures reported here are based on data from September 2016 to April 2017. 

We continuously review our rewards systems through our Remuneration Committee and through wider 
policy reviews to ensure we are fair and transparent in our people practices. As part of this commitment, 
further analysis is being undertaken to establish the points at which men and women become under-
represented in the employee journey and targeted action, such as reviewing policies and processes, is 
being taken to address root causes. 

 

 

DIRECTORS SIGNATURE  

 

 

 

 

 

I, Israel Griedinger, Deputy CEO, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 

Signed 

 

Date 02/03/2018 

 

  

 
 

 

