Pentland Brands Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Gender Pay Gap
Women’s pay and bonuses compared to men’s

Gender Ratio by Pay Quartile

We want Pentland 
Brands to be a place 
where everyone is 
welcomed, supported, 
and encouraged to 
grow and contribute. 
That’s why fairness, 
equality and 
transparency is 
important to us.

This report looks at the overall Gender Pay Gap numbers for 
the wider Pentland Brands community, including brand entities. 
This is to give a more realistic picture of Pentland Brands Pay 
in the U.K. The U.K government requires us to report only on 
entities with more than 250 employees, therefore numbers will 
differ on the government website as we are reporting on PBL 
alone. In PBL we pay women a median salary of 23% more than 
men versus 5.9% in the wider community.
“Our Gender Pay Gap ﬁ gures have been calculated in line with the regulations set out 
in the Gender Pay Gap Reporting legislation. I conﬁ rm that these ﬁ gures are accurate.” 
Andy Long, CEO.

Median*
5.9% higher
3.7% higher

Mean
18.4% lower
49.9% lower

Hourly Rate of Pay
Bonus Paid

% Awarded a Bonus

88%

Women

91%

Men

Women
44%

Men
56%

Men
39%

Women
61%

Upper

Upper Middle

Men
44%

Women
56%

Women
41%

Men
59%

Lower Middle

Lower

The Findings
Our gender pay gap data shows an overall snapshot 
taken on 5th April 2017 and includes all employees 
from Pentland Brands Limited and its brand companies 
(Speedo, Berghaus, Mitre, Canterbury). 
The mean pay gap measurement of 18.4% largely 
reﬂ ects the disproportionate representation of men in 
our senior leadership population. Viewed alongside 
the median measurement – where women’s pay is 
5.9% higher – we are clear that our challenge is in 
increasing the number of women at the highest level of 
our organisation. In this reporting period, our Chairman, 
CEO and 75% of our Executive team were male.
Despite challenges, we have seen some progress. Over the 
past few years we’ve been focused on building the pipeline of 
female talent in the business, which means we have a strong 
population of women in the upper middle pay quartile and 
over 35% of our senior leadership population are women.

* Data found in this report is correct as of April 2017. When we look at the mean, we see 
larger variations due to imbalanced gender representation at various levels, rather than 
due to pay inequality in like for like roles. It does signify a need to take action at ensuring 
greater gender balance, particularly in areas such as our senior leadership population. 

Actions
We’re committed to making improvements in 
the areas where there are still differences. 
We believe we can make improvements by 
increasing the gender diversity in our most senior 
leadership roles. We’ll support this by: 
•   Running unconscious bias training sessions 
with the Executive and Leadership team.
•   Introducing job banding.
•   Introducing a new ﬂ exible working policy offering 
all employees ﬂ exible core working hours 
and the opportunity to work from home. 
•   Further professionalising our talent and development 
programme and introducing capability frameworks.
•   Embedding diversity and inclusion principles in 
all our management and leadership training. 
In addition to the above we’re widening our university 
and college search to capture a more diverse pool of 
graduates and interns. We’re also improving bonus goal 
setting and performance reviews across the business.

