 

 

Gender Pay Gap Statement 2017 

 

57% male 
46% male 
52% male 
41% male 

43% female 
54% female 
48% female 
59% female 

In line with all other organisations of more than 250  employees, Epsom College is required to publish specific 
calculations showing the difference between the pay for male and female employees.  This requirement was 
introduced under the Equality Act (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, with the first effective period 
for reporting being 5th April 2017. 
 
The College is required to analyse and report on the average rates of pay for its male and female employees, 
providing the following information: 
 
Mean Gender Pay Gap: 
Using the mean average pay, female employees are paid 13% less than male employees.  
 
Median Gender Pay Gap:  
Using the median average pay, female employees are paid 10% less than male employees. 
 
Pay Quartiles 
 
Top Quartile 
Upper Middle Quartile   
Lower Middle Quartile   
Lower Quartile  
 
 
There were no bonus payments. 
 
Epsom College is committed to providing a fair working environment for staff, and that includes ensuring that staff 
are paid an impartial rate of pay for the work that they do.   
 
Teaching  staff  are  remunerated on  an  incremental pay  scale  that  rewards  them  for  their  professional 
performance, wider contribution to the College and their level of experience. Support staff pay  is regularly 
reviewed and benchmarked on a national and local basis to ensure that pay correctly reflects the value and 
complexity of the work undertaken. Male and female staff at Epsom College are treated equally on appointment, 
and throughout their careers at the College. 
 
The College, therefore, believes that the gap in pay detailed above reflects the nature of the College’s personnel.  
It will continue to review rates of pay to ensure that they are unbiased and reflect the pay for similar roles in the 
wider market. 
 
I confirm that the calculations are an accurate representation of the College’s position at 5th April 2017. 
 
Dr A J Wells 
Chairman 

