WEIGHT WATCHERS UK
GENDER PAY GAP 
REPORT 2017

JENNY HYLAND, 
HEAD OF TRAINING 

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

OUR VIEW

Since we were founded in the 1960’s we have championed and 
celebrated the power of women in our business and as a result, women’s 
careers have flourished at Weight Watchers for many decades. We 
therefore welcome the Government’s commitment to improve diversity 
and gender equality in the work place and we support the reporting of 
gender pay gap information as an important step to drive change.

Reflective of our members and our early heritage, we have attracted 
more women into our business across all functions and levels. Today, 
96% of us are women, and in our Coach roles, which make up the 
majority of our colleagues, we are 98% female. We are proud of our 
strong track record of retaining our people and growing their careers, 
and as a result we continue to have a strong female employee profile. 

In comparison with many other UK companies, we do not have an 
issue recruiting, retaining or developing women’s careers to senior level. 
However, our female strong workforce across every level means that we 
have a much lower percentage of male employees, and the few males we 
do have in our organisation (4%), mainly occupy roles in our Head Office.

This unique profile skews our gender pay gap data. To address this and 
create a greater gender balance, we need to continue to be a great place 
for women to work and develop their careers, but we also need to attract 
more men into roles at Weight Watchers, particularly across our Coach 
population. 

Our business purpose and strategy is defined by the principles of 
inclusivity, diversity and equality. We are therefore determined to ensure 
this is reflected in the profile of our people and the opportunities they 
have available to develop fulfilling careers with us. We will not do this 
by over focusing on trying to change headline numbers for the sake of 
statistics, for example by trying to fit people into roles to improve the 
data. This could be unhelpful and even regressive. Instead, our focus 
will continue to be making Weight Watchers a rewarding and great place 
to work for our current and future employees.

JOSIE MORTIMER 
HR DIRECTOR

CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT:
SHASITA SHAN, RACHEL DE LANGE, NICOLE HUNTER, DANNI ADAMS, ANDREW BREARLEY, 
ZOE LYSANDROU, RAELENE HOPE, MARCUS GLAZEBROOK, SHELLEY FLETCHER 

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

MEASURING THE GAP

To understand gender pay gap reporting, the following is a quick explanation of how it is 
calculated in line with the Government’s reporting requirements. 

WHAT IS THE GENDER PAY GAP?
The gender pay gap refers to the difference 
in average pay of men and women, 
across an entire organisation, sector or 
economy. The comparison does not factor 
in differences like job titles, or the number 
of men or women in a business. It is not, 
therefore, an equal pay comparison, which 
involves a direct comparison of a man and 
a woman employed to do ‘like for like’, or 
equivalent, work. 

At Weight Watcher’s we are committed 
to ensuring equal pay through regular 
monitoring and analysis, which included 
an extensive salary benchmarking exercise 
in 2016.

WHAT’S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 
THE MEAN AND THE MEDIAN GAP?
The mean pay gap is the difference 
between the hourly pay of all male and 
female employees when added up 
separately and divided by the total number 
of the males and females in the workforce.

The median pay gap is the difference 
between the pay of the middle male and 
middle female, when all of the employees 
are listed from the highest to the lowest paid. 

WHAT ARE PAY QUARTILES?
We also report on the percentage of men 
and women in four notional, equal-sized 
pay quartiles (lower, lower middle, upper 
middle, upper).

WHAT ABOUT BONUSES?
These median and mean calculations are 
also applied to the bonus sums rewarded 
to our colleagues over a twelve-month 
period. The percentage of male and 
female colleagues awarded a bonus is 
also included in our report. At Weight 
Watchers, our bonus, recognition and 
reward approach is tailored to specific 
roles, but the government reporting 
structure requires all bonuses across  
the business to be compared into one 
average figure. 

HOW ARE THE FIGURES 
CALCULATED? 
The data for mean and median pay, 
including bonuses, and the quartile 
pay bands are based on data from April 
2017. The hourly pay includes basic pay, 
and includes pay for leave. Overtime, 
redundancy and pay in lieu of leave are 
not included.

FROM LEFT: 
GRACE JOHNSON, FOOD DATABASE ASSISTANT 
RAY KAUR, FOOD DATABASE NURTITIONIST

In the UK we employ a total of 1,298 people. 

A SNAPSHOT OF OUR BUSINESS TODAY:
Since 1963, we’ve inspired people to come together and 
begin a journey of positive, lasting change to improve their 
health and wellbeing.
• 
•  The majority of our employees are Coaches, with 
a total of 1,156 across the country. Traditionally 
our Coaches tend to be part-time or flexible roles, 
allowing the team to manage their time alongside 
other commitments; whether that’s another job, study, 
or juggling family life. As a result, this role has been 
very attractive to women and the demographic of this 
group is currently predominantly female.

•  Our team in our Head Office in Maidenhead is 

more gender balanced, with a female-strong Senior 
Leadership team. We have 142 people working in 
function and business management roles, including 
our Area Service Managers. 

•  We are passionate about developing our employees – 
59% of our current Head Office population and 21% 
of our current Coach population have been promoted. 

UNDERSTANDING OUR NUMBERS

At Weight Watchers, we are currently a predominantly female team, particularly in our Coach 
population. In contrast, our male colleagues make up just 4% of our total workforce. In 
addition, the very small number of men in our organisation mainly occupy roles in our Head 
Office, from finance to marketing, which are some of our higher paid functions. Our Senior Vice 
President & General Manager is also a man. As a result of this overall profile, our mean gender 
pay gap is 44% and our median gender pay gap is 27%, in favour of men.

However, these headline statistics do not reflect the fact that, 
unlike many other companies, we do not have an issue with 
recruiting, retaining or developing women’s careers to senior 
level. Our gender pay gap is influenced by two key factors:

OVERALL GENDER 

1Under representation of men across the organisation, 

particularly within our Coach roles. As we grow our 
membership base and attract more men, this profile is 

changing and this will reduce our gender pay gap figures. 
For example, by hiring just over 100 additional male 
Coaches (representing 10% of our Coach roles), which is 
in line with our growth ambitions, our mean gender pay 
gap would be reduced to 6.98%. However, we’ll always 
select the best candidate for the job, rather than use positive 
discrimination to manipulate our figures.

PAY GAP
44%
27%
2The timeframe of the government reporting was a period when some of our most senior, 

and therefore higher paid, roles in the UK business were vacant. This skewed our Senior 
Leadership team to a male profile. Today, of our six Senior Leadership roles, four are held 
by women. As a result, we estimate that if we were to report on our figures for the period of April 
2018, our gender pay gap would already be dramatically reduced.

Mean

Median

By hiring 100 
additional male 

Coaches our 

OVERALL MEAN 
GENDER PAY GAP 
WOULD BE REDUCED TO 

6.98%

COACH 
GENDER 
PAY GAP 

Mean

-1.05%
3.76%

Median

TOTAL
4%

GENDER SPLIT 

ACROSS 

THE ENTIRE 
BUSINESS

TOTAL
96%

We want to be as transparent as possible and share data that goes beyond the government 
requirements, to help give a fuller picture of our business. If we look specifically at the data in our 
Coach population, where we have the largest number of employees, our mean gender pay gap is 
-1.05%, in favour of women, and our median gender pay gap is 3.76%.

Head Office      
Coaches 

18%
2%

Head Office        
Coaches 

82%
98%

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017BONUS MEAN AND MEDIAN GAP
At Weight Watchers, our bonus structure varies across functions. In 
our Head Office, the bonus package is calculated annually based 
on a number of factors, including global revenue, regional operating 
income and personal performance against SMART objectives. For 
our Coaches, the reward and recognition package is specific to the 
nature of their role. We have a number of incentive bonuses 
rewarded on a monthly and quarterly basis. Each month our top 
three performing Coaches can double their earnings for that month 
through these rewards. 

Within our Head Office and across our Area Service Managers and 
Training Managers, 97% of women and 75% of men received 
a bonus in the reporting period. In our Coach teams, equal 
numbers of men and women received a bonus in the reporting 
period (approximately 30%).

PAY QUARTILES
97.76%

97.77% 98.88%

92.19%

GENDER BONUS 

PAY GAP

Mean

86%
87%

Median

E
L
I
T
R
A
U
Q

 

R
E
W
O
L

E
L
I
T
R
A
U
Q
 
E
L
D
D
M
R
E
W
O
L

 

I

E
L
I
T
R
A
U
Q

I

 
E
L
D
D
M
R
E
P
P
U

 

E
L
I
T
R
A
U
Q
R
E
P
P
U

 

Averaging our bonus data from two 
different reward and recognition models, 
54% of our male colleagues and 36% 
of our female colleagues received a 
bonus. Our mean gender bonus gap is 
86% and our median gender bonus gap 
is 87%, in favour of men. 

Averaging 

our bonus data 

from two different 

reward and 
recognition 

models

Within our Coach population, the 
mean gender bonus gap of -80% and 
a median gender bonus gap of -900%, in favour of women, in 
keeping with the demographic of this group.

Like our median and mean pay gap figures, our bonus data in this 
reporting period is also skewed by the typically higher paid functional 
roles that our small population of male employees occupy. Our data 
is additionally impacted the vacancies in our Senior Leadership team, 
which have since been filled by women. 

TOTAL
54%

2.23%

1.12%

2.24%

7.81%

TOTAL
36%

PROPORTION 
OF MEN AND 

WOMEN  

PAID A BONUS

Our two types of bonus schemes have been developed to meet the 
reward and incentive needs of different roles. This can make bonus 
comparisons across the business difficult, as they are not ‘like for like’.

Head Office
Coaches 

75%
29.4%

Head Office
Coaches 

97%
29.7%

We have a strong history 
and track record of 
attracting and growing 
the careers of women to 
our most senior roles. 
As a result, we continue 
to have a strong female 
employee profile 
across all levels of our 
business. 

To address our current 
gender pay gap 
statistics, one way 
would be to simply 
focus on greater gender 
balance by attracting 
more men to careers 
at Weight Watchers, 
particularly across our 
Coach population. 

While we are 
increasingly attracting 
more male Coaches 
to meet the evolving 
profile of our members, 
our approach will always 
be to find the best 
candidate for the job, 
regardless of gender.

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

REDUCING THE GAP
WE HAVE 5 KEY FOCUSES:
1SUPPORTING GENDER DIVERSITY IN OUR WORKFORCE

We are committed to increasing the gender diversity 
of our business. This not only reflects our changing 

membership profile and the communities we work in, but 
we know it is also good for business success too. Diverse 
and gender balanced teams are proven to deliver stronger 
business outcomes. 

With our move from a primary focus on weight management 
to a more holistic approach by helping people adopt healthy 
habits and improve their wellbeing, we are attracting more  
men to our membership and in turn this broader sector 
positioning will attract more male colleagues. Over the next  
two years we anticipate our Coach team will grow and we  
will attract an increasing number of male Coaches into  
the business.

As a business, we will always challenge ourselves to 
be an inclusive and diverse workforce and, ultimately, 
a great place to work for everyone. 

2CONTINUING TO SUPPORT STRONG  

CAREER PROGRESSION
We need to balance our desire for a more gender 
balanced workforce with our commitment to supporting 
the career development of our existing team. Today, 
four of our six Senior Leadership roles are occupied by 
women. Many of these leaders grew their careers with 
us and have been in the organisation for nearly ten years 
between them.

We’ll always select the best candidate for the job, but if a 
new position becomes available, we start by advertising it 
internally to make sure we’re giving our home-grown talent 
opportunities for career development. Our Weight Watchers 
Journeys programme nurtures progression for all our 
employees, regardless of their gender.

3AVOIDING UNCONSCIOUS GENDER BIAS

We are committed to ensuring that wherever possible we have an equal balance of male and female candidates for any 
vacancy or new role. We will support this by assessing the language we use in job descriptions and recruitment campaigns to 
make sure there is no unconscious gender bias. We seek to always make our interview panels representative and gender balanced.

JULIA WESTGARTH, HEAD OF PUBLISHING AND CONTENT 
“After my own personal experience with Weight Watchers as a brand, I 
was so inspired that I trained to become a Coach. I loved the flexibility of 
my role, which meant I could fit my hours around my children. In 2012 
I was ready to return to work full time and I am now a member of the 
Management team, overseeing a team of 9 employees.”

REBECCA STONE, AREA SERVICE MANAGER 
“Weight Watchers supported my CIPD in 
Learning and Development and 12 months 
ago I made the move from the HR & Training 
Dept into the Operations Department as Area 
Service Manager – I now have the pleasure 
of managing a team of the Coaches that I 
had worked alongside when I first joined the 
company and I love it!”

TAIBA SHAN,
FIELD SUPPORT COORDINATOR
“I joined as a temp in the admin room; 
I was born deaf so the role was an ideal 
stepping stone into the working world. It 
was through my dedication to excel, and 
the endless support from my team and 
others at Weight Watchers, that I was 
promoted to Field Support Coordinator."

UK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 2017

4FAIR AND COMPETITIVE SALARIES

Ensuring our compensation is fair is a priority for us and we’re confident our teams are 
rewarded appropriately for their hard work. We undertook an extensive salary benchmarking 

exercise in 2016, and last year we also completed a comprehensive compensation review for our 
Coaches, working collaboratively with a consultative forum from the Coach population, to develop 
a model that better suited their needs. We’ve worked hard to provide consistency and fairness 
within our pay and bonus decision-making process, ensuring remuneration is based on market 
data and performance.

5FLEXIBILITY, WELLBEING AND WORK LIFE BALANCE

We’re passionate advocates of flexible working, with hours that fit around other commitments, 
and opportunities to work part-time are open to all of our colleagues. We’re delighted that over 

half (60%) of maternity leavers’ have come back into the business. Traditionally our Coach roles 
tend to be part time or offer flexible hours, allowing the team to manage their time alongside other 
commitments, whether that’s another job, study or family life.

MARCUS GLAZEBROOK, SENIOR FINANCE MANAGER 
"Flexible working fits my lifestyle perfectly; it allows 
me to watch my son's school football matches and I’m 
able to take my daughter to school more frequently, 
which means I'm more actively involved in both of their 
school lives. It also means I can take some time to hit 
the gym, which is always a good thing!" 

JOSIE MORTIMER, HR DIRECTOR
“I joined Weight Watchers in November 2013. I’ve 
moved through the ranks and when I returned in 
March 2016, after taking shared parental leave, I was 
promoted to HR Director. I love my role and believe we 
truly listen to our employees, which makes this a great 
place to develop your career.”

DISCLOSURE

We are committed to ensuring a diverse, gender balanced workforce 
where everyone can succeed and we recognise there are things we 
need to do to reduce our gender pay gap and are committed to that. We 
know that since the reporting date our gender pay gap has already been 
significantly reduced. And importantly we are confident that any gap is 
not due to an equal pay issue. 

We are putting health and wellbeing at the heart of everything we offer, 
and our global ambition is to help ten million people adopt healthy 
habits. To achieve this, we remain dedicated to attracting and retaining 
the very best talent to our business. We take great pride in our female 
strong workforce across every level of our business.  At the same 
time, we also want to enhance our gender diversity to reflect and best 
support and encourage our members, and in turn their families and 
their communities. 

I am very proud that our commitment to be a diverse, flexible and 
satisfying place to work was recognised when Weight Watchers was 
listed in this year’s Sunday Times ‘Top 100 Best Companies to Work 
For’, as well as being honoured as one of the UK’s ‘Best Places to 
Work’ in the Glassdoor Employees’ Choice Award 2018. 

As Senior Vice President and  
General Manager of Weight  
Watchers UK, I, Chris Stirk  
confirm that the information 
contained herein is accurate.

CHRIS STIRK 
SVP & GENERAL MANAGER UK

Weight Watchers (UK) Ltd.  
Millennium House, Ludlow Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 2SL 
www.weightwatchers.co.uk 
Weight Watchers is a trademark of Weight Watchers Intl. Inc and used under its control
Registered in England and Wales No. 1248588 VAT No. 578 3845 85

SARAH BARNES, 
COACH 

