Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

Roche Healthcare Ltd. 

 

Introduction 

With effect from April 2017 we, as an employer with over 250 employees, are required by law to carry 
out gender pay gap reporting under the THE EQUALITY ACT 2010 (Gender pay Gap information) 
Regulations 2017. 

In this report we will be assessing the gender pay gap of our organisation using six calculations which 
show the differences between the average earnings of men and women in our company. 

Measuring the gender pay gap. 

We will be reporting the following calculations, as of 5th April 2017:-  

1.  Mean Gender Pay Gap. Mean is the most common use of an ‘average’. The company took the total 
hourly rates of males and females as at 5th April 2017 and divided this by the number of males and 
females.  

 

2.  Median Gender Pay Gap. The median male and females were assessed by ordering the categories by 

highest to lowest paid and choosing both the middle male and female value. This method of 
averaging removes any high or low pay rates which may distort the mean calculation. 

 

3.  Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap. This is the same method as in (1) using the bonuses paid in the 

twelve-month period up to 5th April 2017. 

 

4.  Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap. This is the same method as in (2) using the bonuses paid in the 

twelve-month period up to 5th April 2017. 

 

5.  Proportion of Males and Females receiving a Bonus Payment. For this calculation we take the 

number of males or females receiving a bonus in the twelve-month period up to 5th April 2017. We 
then divide these figures by the total number of male or female employees showing the result as a 
percentage. 

 

6.  Proportion of Males and Females when divided into four quartiles. All the employees are ordered 
highest to lowest hourly rate. This list is then split into four equal quarters and the percentage of 
males and females is calculated for each quartile. 

 

The comparisons of 1 to 4 are shown as a percentage of the male figure, meaning positive percentages 
show higher male pay and negative percentages show lower male pay. 

 

 

 

 

 

Results of our Gender Pay Gap Analysis 

 

 

Relevant Employees 

Calculation 
1.  Mean Gender Pay Gap 
2.  Median Gender Pay gap 
3.  Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap 
4.  Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Gap % 

7.1 
2.0 
85.2 
-33.3 

Proprtion of employees 

receiving a bonus 

3% 

MALE 

0.5% 

FEMALE 

 

Proportion of males and females falling into four quartiles 

Upper Quartile 

Upper middle 

quartile 

Lower middle 

quartile 

10% 

Male

Female

90% 

 

Conclusions 

Lower quartile 

7% 

7% 

7% 

Male

Female

93% 

93% 

Male

Female

93% 

Male

Female

 

1.  The mean Gender pay Gap at 7.1% is much lower than the UK average of 18% 

(https:www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-gender-pay-gap), the median gender pay gap, 
which removes any anomaly from the highest and lowest pay shows an insignificant gap 
at 2.0%. 

2.  The proportion of employees in each of the four quartiles is very similar, which leads us 

to believe that there is no inequality in pay between males and females. 

I confirm that the information used is accurate and that the calculations have been made 
appropriately in line with the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017. 

Patrick Roche (chairman) 

