Annual Gender Pay Gap Report

This is Cepac’s report for the snapshot date of 5 April 2017:

OUR TOTAL PAY GAP

On average (mean), 

male employees earned

17.2%

more than female employees

OUR TOTAL BONUS GAP

49.2%

of female employees 

received a bonus

62.0%

of male employees 
received a bonus

The median pay gap shows
male employees earned 

10.4%

more than female employees

Average (mean), 

male bonus payments were

40.1%

higher than female 

bonus payments

Band A

Band B

Median male bonus
payments were  

65.3%

higher than female 

bonus payments

81.2%
Males

18.8%

Females

84.8%
Males

15.2%

Females

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them at or below the lower quartile

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but at 

or below the median

Band C

Band D

91%
Males

9%

Females

92%
Males

8%

Females

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the median but at or 

below the upper quartile

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 

rate places them above the upper quartile

 

The fi gures set out above have been calculated using the standard methodologies 
used in the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

What are the underlying causes 
of Cepac’s gender pay gap?

Under the law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

•  the same or broadly similar work
•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme
•  work of equal value 

We are as committed to the principle of equal opportunities 
and equal treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, 
race, religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, 
pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender 
reassignment or disability. We have a clear policy of  
paying employees equally for the same or equivalent  
work, regardless of their sex (or any other characteristic  
set out above). 
 
As such, we will:
•  carry out pay and benefits audits at regular intervals
•  provide regular equal pay training for all managers and  
  other staff members who are involved in pay reviews
•  evaluate job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure  
  a fair structure 

We are therefore confident that our gender pay gap does 
not stem from paying men and women differently for the 
same or equivalent work. The gender pay gap is the result 
of the roles in which men and women work within the 
organisation and the salaries that these roles attract. 

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely 
than women to be in senior roles (especially very senior 
roles at the top of organisations), while women are more 
likely than men to be in front-line roles at the lower end  

of the organisation. In addition, men are more likely to be  
in machinery-based, technical and IT-related roles,which 
attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels 
of seniority. Women are also more likely than men to 
have had breaks from work that have affected their career 
progression,for example to bring up children. They are  
also more likely to work part time, and many of the jobs  
that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are 
relatively low paid.
 
This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected 
in the make-up of Cepac’s workforce, where the majority 
of manufacturing machinery operators are men and the 
majority of line manager and senior manager roles are  
held by men.  

This can be seen above in the table depicting pay quartiles 
by gender. This shows Cepac’s workforce divided into  
four equal-sized groups based on hourly pay rates, with 
Band A including the lowest-paid 25% of employees (the 
lower quartile) and Band D covering the highest-paid 25% 
(the upper quartile). In order for there to be no gender  
pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men  
to women in each Band. The percentage of male  
employees increases throughout the Bands, from 81%  
in Band A to 92% in Band D. This is because most roles  
in Cepac are manufacturing roles, held by men, and  
most senior management positions are also held by men.

How does Cepac’s gender  
pay gap compare with that  
of other organisations?

The vast majority of organisations have a gender 
pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say  
that Cepac’s gap compares favourably with that 
of other organisations, including those within  
the manufacturing industry.

ONS data published in November 2017 shows 
that the national average median gender pay gap 
across all industry sectors now stands at 18.4%. 
In the manufacturing sector, the median gender 
pay gap in the manufacturing industry stands at 
20.8%. At 10.4%, Cepac’s median gender pay gap 
is, therefore, significantly lower than both that for 
the whole economy and that for our sector.

Cepac

   2017 ONS ASHE whole sector

17.2%

Mean gender pay gap

10.4%

Median gender pay gap

17.4%

Mean gender pay gap

18.4%

Median gender pay gap

Bonus pay gap

The mean gender bonus gap and the median gender  
bonus gap for Cepac are relatively large at 40.1%  
and 65.3%. However, when looked at in terms of cash  
amounts rather than percentage terms, the figures  
involved are comparatively small, at £1,028 and £1,582 
respectively, reflecting our existing policy of not paying 
large bonuses to individual members of staff.

The proportion of men at Cepac who received 
a bonus in the 12 months up to 5 April 2017 
was 62%, while for women this was 49%.  
This reflects the higher proportion of men  
in the manufacturing and management roles  
that, under our current policy, attract  
a performance bonus.

What is Cepac doing to  
address its gender pay gap?

Supporting parents 
Cepac will develop new guidelines for managers on 
supporting employees prior to, during and on return from 
maternity and other parental leave

None of these initiatives will, of itself, remove the gender  
pay gap - and it may be several years before some have  
any impact at all.  
 
In the meantime, we are committed  
to reporting on an annual basis on  
what we are doing to reduce the  
gender pay gap and the progress  
that we are making.

While Cepac’s gender pay gap compares favourably  
with that of organisations both across the whole UK 
economy and within the manufacturing sector, we are  
not complacent and we are committed to doing everything 
that we can to reduce the gap. However, we recognise that 
our scope to act is limited in some areas – we have, for 
example, no direct control over the subjects that individuals 
choose to study or the career choices that they make.

Cepac is committed to promoting gender 
diversity in all areas of its workforce, 
including the following specific actions:

Creating an evidence base
To identify any barriers to gender equality and  
inform priorities for action, in 2018 Cepac will  
introduce gender monitoring in key areas of  
the business.

Reviewing the flexible working policy
Cepac’s flexible working policy will be reviewed  
to ensure that it does not inhibit the continuing 
improvement of our gender pay gap performance.

In the coming year, Cepac  
is also committed to:

•  reviewing our policy on bonus payments

•  launching a school-partnering pilot scheme with local  
  secondary schools, to raise young people’s awareness  
  of the different career opportunities available within  
  the manufacturing sector, and to help dispel any  
  misperceptions and stereotypes

 

Any further initiatives launched throughout the  
year will be reported on the company’s internal  
communication channels.

I, Martin Costa (Finance Director) confirm that 
the information in this statement is accurate.

Signed 

 

5th April 2018

