Gender  
Pay Gap Report 
Powering progress

Foreword

02

“At Atos, we have always been committed to equality 
and diversity in all its forms and as a fast-evolving 
business, we constantly refresh and refocus our 
efforts in this domain. Publishing this report is just one 
part of an important journey for us, which started  
with the launch of our Group Diversity Programme.  
This was an opportunity to restate our ambitions,  
with policies and initiatives to create an environment  
in which all employees can fulfil their potential.

In Atos, our Gender Diversity Strategy builds on this 
and defines how we will work to maintain a pipeline 
of female talent, create a flexible and inclusive 
working environment, and enable women to progress 
to senior technology and leadership positions.  
This is personally important to me, not just because  
it is the right thing to do, but because I see how 
diversity leads to greater success. By employing 
people of all backgrounds and cultures, we enrich  
our workplace, strengthen our client relationships, 
add value to our solutions, and foster a culture  
in which everyone can succeed.

As this report shows, while we’ve made some 
progress, there’s still a long way to go and our wider 
industry faces particular challenges in gender 
diversity. The UK Digital Strategy highlights that just 
17% of tech industry workers are women identifying 
a looming skills gap and we are determined to play 
our part to address it. We know we have much more 
to do, but we are excited about our gender diversity 
initiatives and taking the next step on this challenging 
and crucial journey.”

Adrian Gregory, 
Chief Executive Officer UK & Ireland, Atos

03

Picture  
at a glance

Here are our Gender Pay Gap Statistics.  
In line with the Regulations, these are reported for each of the four relevant legal entities within 
Atos: Atos IT Services UK Ltd, Atos Consulting Ltd, Atos BPS Ltd and Worldline IT Services UK Ltd.

These figures are a snapshot taken on 5 April 2017, with the bonus data taken from the 12 months 
preceding that date. We have taken a meticulous and rigorous approach to data-gathering  
and compilation to ensure that the data is accurate and we fully adhere to the reporting guidelines.

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap

Mean and Median Bonus Gap

Atos  
IT Services UK

Atos  
Consulting

Atos BPS 

Atos  
IT Services UK

Atos  
Consulting

Atos BPS 

Mean  
Pay Gap

Median  
Pay Gap

30.25%

18.59%

18.64%

23.88%

13.16%

11.55%

Mean  
Bonus Gap

40.42%

Median  
Bonus Gap

23.75%

38.31%

24.32%

23.27%

16.57%

Proportion of men and women  
receiving a bonus payment

Pay Quartiles - Proportion of men  
and women in each quartile pay band

Atos  
IT Services UK

Atos  
Consulting

Atos BPS 

%

46%

25%

74%

72%

81%

81%

Top Quartile 
 

Atos IT Services: 81% 
Atos Consulting: 89% 
Atos BPS: 51%

Atos IT Services: 19% 
Atos Consulting: 11% 
Atos BPS: 49%

Upper Middle  
Quartile 

Atos IT Services: 71% 
Atos Consulting: 83% 
Atos BPS: 33%

Atos IT Services: 29% 
Atos Consulting: 17% 
Atos BPS: 67%

Lower Middle  
Quartile 

Atos IT Services: 46% 
Atos Consulting: 79% 
Atos BPS: 18%

Atos IT Services: 54% 
Atos Consulting: 21% 
Atos BPS: 82%

Lower Quartile

Atos IT Services: 52% 
Atos Consulting: 70% 
Atos BPS: 35%

Atos IT Services: 48% 
Atos Consulting: 30% 
Atos BPS: 65%

04

Understanding  
our gap

A deeper understanding of our gap reveals challenges and opportunities  
for our industry as a whole and for Atos as a business. Every one of these insights  
is helping us focus our efforts to address the issues of gender diversity and inclusion.

•  STEM companies face a large and important challenge when it comes to gender inclusivity.  

In response, organisations across the recruitment, tech and social enterprise fields established  
the Tech Talent Charter to share best practice and drive gender equality in our industry.  
We support the Charter and have signalled our intention to participate.

•  We also know our gap is caused by fewer women than men holding senior positions  

in our business. Across all our legal entities, women are under-represented in our top quartile  
pay bands. This is a picture we are committed to changing. 

•  Just as importantly, we recognise that we need to attract and recruit more women  

into Atos at all levels.

05

06

Worldline

Worldline, our payment and transaction services business, is part of the Atos Group.  
Worldline reports separately for accounting and legal purposes.

Mean and Median Gender Pay Gap

Mean and Median Bonus Gap

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

Mean Bonus Gap

Median Bonus Gap

23.49%

21.16%

32.58%

30.11%

Proportion of men and women  
receiving a bonus payment

Pay Quartiles - Proportion of men  
and women in each quartile pay band

61%

53%

%

Top Quartile

83%

Upper Middle Quartile

81%

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

75%

55%

17%

19%

25%

45%

“In Worldline, we are proud of our talents and we strongly believe that 
having an inclusive and diverse culture is not only an essential part  
of our values, it also enables us to deliver better value to our customers 
and to attract the very best talents – whoever and wherever they are.

We are committed to being transparent on our data and using that data 
to drive our improvement plans. This commitment starts at the very top 
of our organisation and that is why Worldline has made gender equity 
one of our key ambitions in our TRUST 2020 global Corporate Social 
Responsibility plan.”

Lisa Coleman 
Chief Executive Officer UK & Ireland, Worldline

07

Case study: 
AtosAspire

Thanks to the energy, talent and dedication of our people, Atos is proud to have six very active,  
fast-growing diversity networks who continually work to challenge us to achieve our diversity ambitions. 

In 2016, we welcomed the launch of AtosAspire, our gender diversity network. AtosAspire has grown 
rapidly, earning an Atos Community Champion Award in recognition of its value and with high levels 
of involvement and attendance at its events, including:

•  Inspirational talks and forums, with input from Atos’ global senior Group Executive team  

and from external leaders and well-known role models from all walks of life

•  Coaching and focus groups to grow women’s confidence, accelerate learning and development, 

and address any issues as they emerge

•  Blazing the trail webinars, spanning topics such as tips for influencing and networking,  

coaching in the workplace, vision-setting and taking risks.

Atos networks
We are proud of our six diversity networks:  
the gender network (AtosAspire), LGBT 
network (AtosPride), Cultural network 
(Together Network), Generational diversity 
network (Aeon Network), Armed Forces 
Network & Ability network (AtosAdapt).

“AtosAspire came into being because team performance is higher when the team  
is gender-balanced. We have grown to a network of 750 men and women,  
now with a committee of volunteers to steer communication, research and planning.  
We also collaborate with our STEM ambassador colleagues to extend out into families  
and communities to help attract more women. For me, it’s simple. There’s a desire at all levels 
for Atos to be the best we can be. We want our business and our industry to succeed.”

AtosAspire

AtosPride

Barbara Archbold 
Co-Chair of Atos Aspire UK&I Gender Network,  
Global Workforce Manager 

Anita Gray 
Co-Chair of Atos Aspire UK&I Gender Network,  
Programme Manager, People Transformation

TogetherNetwork

AeonNetwork

“Atos fully supports the move for companies to publish their gender pay gap;  
it’s an opportunity to drive transparency and the continued focus that we, and our industry, 
need to maintain. We’re taking actions to build on the improvements we have made, 
including the work of AtosAspire, to accelerate our progress. We will play an active role  
in the UK and globally to ensure that Atos’ workforce grows to be even more diverse  
in its people, thoughts and ways of working.”

Toby Goldblatt 
Senior Vice President Business & Platform Solutions  
and Executive Sponsor of AtosAspire

Armed Forces

Network

08

AtosAspire  
sponsorship programme

One particularly successful initiative is helping to raise the profile of women and increase the numbers of women progressing  
within Atos. Through this, women are actively sponsored and mentored by men and women in senior positions.

“The relationship with my sponsor  
has been key to enabling me to develop, 
which resulted in my successful 
secondment to Atos’ largest service centre  
in Germany. Following this, and with  
the support of my sponsor, I secured a 
promotion into my current role at Atos 
UK&I’s largest Data Centre service.”

Jenni Hirst 
Service Director 

“My sponsor has instilled a sense that while 
as a mother I work part-time, it doesn’t define 
my abilities. That was a lightbulb moment.  
It’s a much better and healthier focus on 
what I offer and how to make things happen. 
I’ve now applied for a new role which I hope 
will mean new and bigger opportunities.”

“My sponsor has given me valuable insights 
into the skills, behaviours and attributes 
needed by senior staff at Atos. It’s about how 
I can deliver what I need to, but with a better 
understanding of my own style and how  
I contribute. I value this regular contact  
to challenge me on what I want to achieve.”

Nicky Watts 
Business Service Manager

Claire Unwin 
Senior Analyst 

09

Empowering  
our women.  
Powering progress.

10

We are proud of our female leaders from different backgrounds and at different  
stages of their careers. They provide inspiration for women across our business  
and we continue to champion these and other women, both within Atos and externally.

“I’ve spent my whole career in consultancy, working my way  
from Junior Consultant to Account Partner and now recently 
Head of Public Sector Consulting.

My career enables me to work in many different organisations  
and I’ve enjoyed the learning and challenge that brings.  
Having four children and family commitments as well is hard,  
but I decided early on to make it work. I work four days a week,  
so I have a work-life balance, but different things take priority  
at different times. When the work is needed, you get it done.  
When the family need you, you’re there. My children understand 
that and seem none the worse for having a sometimes-absent 
mother. In fact, my daughter is now in consulting and loving it! 

My advice would be: focus on what you want to achieve  
in both your professional and family life and stay flexible.  
Believe you can do it and you probably will.”

Kate Spalding 
Partner, Public Sector Consulting

11

“I studied Mechanical Engineering at university and became 
increasingly fascinated by technology. So, I joined Atos in 2016 through 
the graduate recruitment programme. I have been actively involved 
 in junior talent development and led the peer shadow scheme  
for graduates, interns and apprentices (GIA). A sub-set of this team 
started a pilot for Graduate Mentoring supported by a pool of volunteers 
from our Accelerate talent programme. 

My greatest achievement at Atos to date is winning Atos X  
(our internal thought leadership competition) for my talk  
on Africa’s Digital Opportunity. I am passionate about education  
and development and have had the opportunity to work with a charity  
and travel to Kenya, which is where I was inspired for my talk. Diversity  
is important to me because I believe in focusing on individual strength. 
Individuals bring different perspectives to solving problems  
and this is true collaboration. My advice? Ask questions if unsure.  
Grab opportunities. Network!”

Temitope Dawodu 
Graduate Solutions Architect

A number of women in Atos have been shortlisted for external awards,  
including the Women in IT Awards for both Computing and Information Age in 2017 and 2018.  
They include ‘Business Leader of the Year’ (Lisa Coleman), ‘Hero of the Year’ (Nicoleta Raportaru,  
Samantha Allanson), ‘Rising Star’ (Louise Lawrey) and ‘Outstanding Transformation’ (Rachel Nolan).  
The awards celebrate inspirational women in technology working in the STEM industry.

12

“I joined Atos through the graduate scheme in 2011.  
Throughout my career I’ve had formal and informal mentors and I’ve 
benefited from them all. My biggest achievement to date is winning  
the Atos Star award in 2015. Flexible working in Atos isn’t just limited  
to people with childcare responsibilities. I work from home three days 
a week, with one day in our Leeds office and one from my parents’ 
home. I needed extra flexibility to take study leave when I completed  
a Diploma alongside my job.

Gender diversity is important because it’s essential to our future 
growth as an organisation. As a gay woman, having inclusive line 
managers, mentors and an inclusive environment has helped me. 
Since 2016, I’ve co-chaired the AtosPride LGBT network, which is about 
empowering people to bring their whole selves to work. It’s proven that 
people perform better when they can be themselves and Atos 100% 
enables me to do that.”

Julia Atwater 
Head of Service Delivery Management

Atos Star is our annual award to a single outstanding employee.  
It is designed to publicly recognise and reward individual achievement, recognising positive behaviour  
and attitudes that reflect our business goals and values. As a reflection of the talent of the women  
in our business and the value they deliver, four out of the last five Atos Stars have been women.

13

Closing  
the gap

Our Gender Diversity Ambitions

Atos is committed to closing our gender pay gap and working actively to improve gender diversity within our industry.

We will continue to invest in and foster an environment in which women can thrive. We will take steps to ensure that we have a pipeline  
of female talent and that women in Atos are provided with opportunities and support to progress and pursue a successful career with us.

We pride ourselves on our flexible and remote working policies that nurture a culture of inclusion, work-life balance and trust.

Our global Group Diversity Programme

In 2016, our Group Diversity Programme re-established Atos’ global targets and action plans to address diversity and inclusion issues on four 
fronts: gender diversity, generational diversity, accessibility diversity and cultural diversity. Through co-ordinated policy development, community 
engagement, affinity groups, leadership programmes, role models and supporters, client and supplier engagement, together with ongoing 
monitoring and data analytics, each of these programmes is powering progress within our business.

We actively participate in Atos’ Group Diversity Programme. This delivers training, initiatives and events to ensure the voices of Atos 
women are clearly heard and to address the gender balance across all Atos levels and geographies. Among the many regular events 
and programmes this year are: 

•  Women who Succeed, for succession planning with support and mentoring to grow the proportion of women in senior positions
•  A Seat at the Table for women all over the globe to share experience, inspire, support and advise their colleagues  

on their career journey

•  Invest in Yourself learning programmes, senior and junior talent programmes, book clubs, women’s mentoring,  

women-centric recruitment, and our annual essay collection by women for women.

Our Gender Diversity Strategy

In Atos UK and Ireland, our Gender Diversity Strategy is designed to continuously improve gender equality through a virtuous circle of attracting, 
recruiting, developing and investing in female talent, driven by the commitment of our leadership to ensure progress against our ambitions.

Our Gender Diversity Strategy is underpinned by employment policies and practices that support the recruitment, development and retention 
of an inclusive and diverse workforce.

Accountability  
and Monitoring

Attraction  

and Recruitment  

Talent  

Culture  

and Progression

and Inclusion 

Commitment from our leadership to champion, monitor  
and continually review our strategy to ensure we foster a culture 
in which female talent can thrive

Attracting enough women to maintain a pipeline of female talent 
Maintaining inclusive recruitment processes

Promoting a flexible, family-friendly workplace 
Ensuring equal opportunity and reward for all

Investing in and supporting our female talent to ensure  
they progress and increase their representation at senior levels

14

Action plans

Based on the insights in this report, here are the actions we are taking to help close our pay gap:

1. Invest in attracting a large and diverse female candidate pool to recruit more female talent

2. Continue to support and invest through mentoring, sponsorship and a dedicated female 
development programme to retain and promote our existing talent

3. Foster a culture of diversity and inclusion by tackling unconscious bias, improving flexible 
working options, and enhancing our return to work programme and our diversity programmes 
to drive retention and increase applications

4. Improve accountability and monitoring using data analytics. Working with our senior 
diversity and inclusion leadership and a gender advisory board which comprises of executive 
sponsors, influential women from our tech partners and other thought leaders we will 
continually monitor our progress and shape our gender diversity strategy and direction

5. Participate in the Tech Talent UK Charter to share best practice across our industry.

Our 2022 ambitions 

We recognise that making 
widescale, sustainable change 
takes some time but we are 
committed to achieve  
our ambitions:

•  50% of our graduate hires  

to be women

•  25% of our senior leaders  

to be women

•  Increase the number  

of women in senior client 
facing sales roles

•  Atos to be a Times Top 50 

Employer for Women.

Diversity and inclusion are in our DNA 

Atos is an inclusive employer. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, 
colour, gender, age, disability or sexual orientation. 

I confirm that our data is accurate and has been calculated according to the requirements  
of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

15

About Atos
About Atos

Atos is a global leader in digital transformation 
with approximately 100,000 employees in 
73 countries and annual revenue of around 
€ 13 billion. European number one in Big 
Data, Cybersecurity, High Performance 
Computing and Digital Workplace, the Group 
provides Cloud services, Infrastructure & 
Data Management, Business & Platform 
solutions, as well as transactional services 
through Worldline, the European leader 
in the payment industry. With its cutting-
edge technologies, digital expertise and 
industry knowledge, Atos supports the 
digital transformation of its clients across 
various business sectors: Defense, Financial 
Services, Health, Manufacturing, Media, 
Energy & Utilities, Public sector, Retail, 
Telecommunications and Transportation. 
The Group is the Worldwide Information 
Technology Partner for the Olympic & 
Paralympic Games and operates under the 
brands Atos, Atos Consulting, Atos Worldgrid, 
Bull, Canopy, Unify and Worldline. Atos SE 
(Societas Europaea) is listed on the CAC40 
Paris stock index.

Find out more about us 
atos.net

Let’s start a discussion together

Y
A
P
R
E
D
N
E
G
_
R
_
Y
R
_
9
1
3
0
8
1
_
2
8
7
J
_
T
C

All trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Atos, the Atos logo, Atos Codex, Atos Consulting, Atos Worldgrid, Bull, Canopy, 
equensWorldline, Unify, Worldline and Zero Email are registered trademarks of the Atos group. Atos reserves the right to modify this document 
at any time without notice. Some offerings or parts of offerings described in this document may not be available locally. Please contact your 
local Atos office for information regarding the offerings available in your country. This document does not represent a contractual commitment. 
March 2018. © 2018 Atos

