Our Gender Pay Gap Report 

 

Gender pay gap reporting requires our organisation to make calculations 
based on employee gender. This involves carrying out six calculations that 
show the difference between the average earnings of men and women in 
our organisation. We have done this, according to government guidance, on 
the 5th April 2017 when our workforce consisted of 355 women and 116 men.  

The results are as follows: 

 

 

 

Women’s earnings 
are: 

Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay 

10.4% lower 

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay 

8.6% higher 

Difference in mean bonus payments 

12% higher 

Difference in median bonus payments 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

equal 

 

Our organisation is predominately female with a diverse mix of job functions 
across 23 departments. It is very unusual to have so many varying professions 
within a single site organisation. 

Having a predominately female workforce means that small fluctuations in 
the male workforce can have a significant impact on our gender pay gap. 
Some departments may also have a higher proportion of male employees.  

 

Percentage of men and women who receive a bonus   

 

 

Men 

Women 

 

 

83.3% 

90.9% 

Gender  Distribution by Pay Quartiles

80.5%

86.4%

64.4%

36.6%

19.5%

13.6%

70.1%

29.9%

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

Men Women

 

We are committed to building a diverse and inclusive workplace that gives 
equal opportunities to all employees irrespective of gender. 

The gender pay gap reporting will help us monitor pay, bonus and career 
progression among staff to ensure that all employees, irrespective of gender, 
are supported to reach their full potential based on skill development, 
customer satisfaction and high performance.  

 

Our action plan is to: 

 

At pay review we will ensure that pay and reward are fair at every level. 

Educate all people involved in setting pay rates and bonuses. 

We will continue to support flexible working where possible. 

 

I confirm that this is a true and factual statement and our data has been 
calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender 
Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

 

David Hamdorff – Managing Director 

Allison Garner – Personnel Director 

Andy Howard – Financial Controller 

 
 

