Bristow Helicopters Ltd.  
Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 

gender pay gap occurs due to a significantly higher 
proportion  of  males  in  positions  that  attract  higher 
levels  of  pay,  in  common  with  the  rest  of  the                       
industry.  

While the business has a higher percentage of male 
pilots  and  engineers,  our 
engineers  earn  exactly  the  same  salary  as  a  man 
with 
assuming  their  tenure  and/or  performance  with  the 
company are equally matched.  

their  experience  and  qualifications  would               

female  pilots  and                     

Bristow Helicopters Ltd. is committed to the principle 
of  equal  opportunities  and  equal  treatment  for  all 
employees regardless of sex; race; religion or belief; 
age;  marital  or  civil  partnership  status;  pregnancy  / 
maternity;  sexual  orientation;  gender  reassignment 
or disability.  

The  organisation’s  structure  features  a  number  of 
different occupational groups, broadly defined as:  

  Pilots 

  Helicopter Engineers 

  Administration 

  Operations 

  Technical  Crew  (Search  &  Rescue 

winch  operator  and  winch 
paramedic) 

  Managers 

As  an  organisation  with  more  than  250  employees, 
Bristow  Helicopters  Ltd.  is  publishing  an  annual                  
report  on  its  gender  pay  gap,  with  a  snapshot  date 
of 5th April 2017.  

crew                       

This report confirms; 

  The mean gender pay gap is 44.6% 

The  gender split within these groups  influences our 
mean  gender  pay  gap  of  44.6%  and  is,  in  turn,                   
influenced by the industrial environment in which we 
operate.  

  The median gender pay gap is 51.5% 

  The mean gender bonus gap is 82.9% 

  The median gender bonus gap is 0% 

  9.21% 

relevant  male 

employees                   

received a bonus 

  11.03% 

relevant 
received a bonus 

female  employees  

Our  pilot  population  is  4%  female,  which  compares 
closely  to  the  UK  helicopter  sector  as  a  whole, 
where  5%  of  pilots  that  hold  a  valid  licence  are                 
female.  

Our  helicopter  engineer  group  has  2%  female                  
representation  –  directly  in  line  with  the  wider  UK 
helicopter sector, where 2% of engineers that hold a 
valid CAA licence are women.  

The  company  is  confident  that  its  gender  pay  gap 
does not exist as a result of paying men and women 
differently for the same or equivalent work; rather its 

Page 1 

1 

Pay Quartiles By Gender 

The figures set out below have been calculated using the standard methodologies used in the Equality Act 
2010  (Gender  Pay  Gap  Information)  Regulations  2017.  Bonus  information  includes  shares  that  were   
awarded  in  2013  and  held  in  trust  and  released  in  2016  as  part  of  the  organisation’s  long-term  incentive  
programme. Bonus information also includes Long Service Awards and Retirement Awards. 

 

Band 

Male 

Female 

Description 

Lower quartile 

61% 

39% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them at or below 
the lower quartile 

Lower middle quartile  91% 

9% 

Upper middle quartile  96% 

4% 

Top quartile 

97% 

3% 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 
lower quartile but at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places above the         
median but at or below the upper quartile 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places them above the 
upper quartile 

 

Understanding the Gender Pay Gap 

To  give  more  context,  our  gender  pay  gap  is  influenced  by  the  salaries  and  gender  make  up  of  our  pilot, 
engineering and technical crew (Search & Rescue winch operator and winch crew paramedic) population, 
which  account  for  69%  of  the  company’s  employees  in  the  UK.  This  population  is  predominantly  male 
(97.7%)  and  the  higher  salaries  those  employees  receive,  relative  to  other  non-management  employees, 
significantly  increases  the  average  level  of  remuneration  for  male  employees  of  Bristow  Helicopters  Ltd. 
There are also fewer women in those management roles which attract higher levels of pay, and associated 
bonus arrangements.  

In  the  UK,  pilots  comprise  79%  of  the  population  in  the  upper  quartile  for  pay,  with  the  remainder  of  the           
upper quartile consisting of engineers and senior managers.  

 

Gender Balance 

The gender balance of our UK workforce represents 14% female and 86% male. The breakdown of our UK 
workforce gender balance is set out below.  

Bristow  Helicopters Ltd shares  the wider  ambition of industry in the UK in its  aims  to attract more women 
into the company, in pilot and helicopter engineering roles however, this is expected to prove a longer-term 
challenge as - across the UK helicopter sector - only 5% of pilots and 2% of engineers who currently hold a 
valid CAA licence are female.  

Page 2 

2 

 

Bristow Helicopters Ltd.                                      

Employees 

Managers 

Administration                            
& Operations 

Helicopter Engineers 

Technical Crew                 
(e.g. winch crew) 

Pilots 

Declaration 

I  confirm  that  the  information  and  data  provided  in  this  report  is  accurate  and  in  line  with  mandatory                      
reporting requirements and guidance. 

 

 

 

Matt Rhodes                                                                                                                                                                
Director, Bristow Helicopters Limited                                                                                                                                
3rd April 2018 

Page 3 

3 

