                                Home About Equality and Diversity Safeguarding Ethos, Values and Mission Information for Parents Student & College Services Alumni Cashless Portal Jobs Working with Charities The Corporation OFSTED Reports and Policies DfE Performance Tables Events Public Facilities Riverside Restaurant Hopwood Theatre Riverside Salon Sports Park & Arena Design & Print Conference Facilities News Higher Education Courses Prospectus Contact Travelling to the Campuses      Portals  Desktop O365 itslearning  Online Courses Parents Cashless  Financial Support Application System                    Explore 16-19 Study Programmes  Discover Adult & Higher Education  Search Apprenticeships  Life at Hopwood    Apply Now                      Search and apply for courses Click for more details on what we have to offer               St George's Day Theme Night at the Riverside Restaurant - click for details           Welcome to Hopwood Hall College We are a vocational college set across two campuses in Middleton and Rochdale. With over 200 courses on offer, including programmes in Building Maintenance, Dental Nursing, Painting & Decorating, Plastering, Plumbing and Sports Science, we're sure to have something that's just what you're looking for. We understand college is not just about courses but about life and our campuses are designed to help each student reach their full potential and develop core skills needed for their future careers. At Hopwood Hall College, we pride ourselves on the high quality training facilities we can offer our students. But it isn't only our students who can benefit from those facilities. In addition to our learning environments we also offer top quality services to members of the public. So, whether you’re a student or member of the public, find out more about what Hopwood Hall can offer you by clicking into the sections below.    Principal's message  Read “Hopwood Hall College is the place where students, in great facilities, supported by wonderful staff, are able to succeed.”                  Our licensed restaurant serves modern a la carte British and International Cuisine. Open during term time for lunch and evening meals.   Unique Speciality Theme nights  Dine              A state of the art theatre and event space. This facility is used by our students for a number of performances.   Theatre hire available  Watch              A contemporary hair & beauty salon offering a range of services & treatments by qualified students or staff members.   Try our Special occasion packages  Relax              Our facilities include a sports arena and sports park, as well as many other activities, such as providing local community football.   Corporate memberships available  Train               Alumni     Jimmy Barker, Boxing Academy Manager at time said: “We are all very proud of Nicola achievements during her time at the Hopwood Hall College Boxing Academy. I’m sure that the national titles and medals she won during her time as a Sports student would have provided the foundations on which Nicola can achieve her dreams.”   Nicola Adams MBE - Boxer  Gold Medalist - 2012 Olympics            Newsletter Sign up to our newsletter to keep up-to-date with news and events at Hopwood Hall College.        Keep up with the latest news, thoughts and activities on what’s happening in and around Hopwood Hall College                Alumni     “Studying at the college was a complete awakening for me. To a large extent, my time at Hopwood Hall was the most important developmental period of my life as I was encouraged by the teachers here to try things (artistically) that would have been frowned upon in other establishments."   Clint Boon  Presenter/DJ             Life at HopWood  Still not sure how well you’ll fit in? Check out our gallery, reflecting all aspect of student life, here at Hopwood Hall College.   View All                                 View Hub    Show Me:             12th March 2018     Textiles & Fashion student, Hajra Kousar, was on the receiving end of a surprise visit from our Principal for all the right reasons. 

Hajra was given Amazon vouchers as a well done for her Mindfulness Arts Competition win at The University of Bolton!      12th March 2018     A big thanks to all who took part in our International Women's Day Quiz. After such a great response we have chosen the two winners at random. The winners are...

Performing Arts Student, Lauren Marshall and iLearn Coach, Jane Beresford Draper, who won a £20 Riverside Salon voucher and a £20 Riverside Restaurant voucher respectively!      12th March 2018     In case you missed the big news, Asian Leader have the latest update on our new Chair of the Corporation appointment: 
http://cdn.flipsnack.com/widget/v2/widget.html?hash=fdz965mjv&bgcolor;=EEEEEE&t;=1520382442      12th March 2018     Heads up to students and staff, the College will no longer accept cash payments at both the Middleton and Rochdale Refectories.

Fear not for your food, you can still pay with your College ID card (using the new top up machines), a debit/credit card or apple pay.      11th March 2018     Would you like some free digital skills coaching? Catch the Google Digital Bus at both our Rochdale and Middleton campuses!      10th March 2018     Our UPS students had a fantastic time at Crosby Water Centre for their 'Meet The Marines' day this week.

Another great insight on careers in the Public Services.      9th March 2018     We'd like to say a big thank you to; JD Sports,   Rochdale Boroughwide Housing, Rochdale Borough Council, Balfour Beatty, Sudlows, Dascher Logistics and GMAC, who have been delivering some fantastic presentations for #NationalApprenticeshipWeek this week.  #NAW2018 #apprenticeships #careers      9th March 2018     APPRENTICESHIP VACANCY:

Want to start your career as a chef at an award winning Gastro pub? This could be the perfect opportunity for you! Apprenticeships in Rochdale, Middleton and Heywood #NAW2018  https://www.hopwood.ac.uk/about/jobs/commis-chef-apprentice-milnrow-12480-annum      9th March 2018     As part of #NationalApprenticeshipWeek, some of our apprentices have been shadowing senior members of the College during their day-to-day activities.

Today, it was Alanya-Lee Prince who had the honour of shadowing our Principal, Derek O'Toole, in one of his management meetings. #NAW2018 #apprenticeships #careers      9th March 2018     APPRENTICESHIP VACANCY:

A great opportunity to earn and learn at a renown company in Oldham. The first step on the ladder is often the most important! #NAW2018      9th March 2018     Here's our best efforts for #apprenticeshipFilms ... Please don't judge us      9th March 2018       9th March 2018  BUS UPDATE:

Due to road works on the H1 bus route, the bus stops at Bridge Street and at the bottom of Buckstones Road are closed.  Learners are advised to use another bus stop on the route.      8th March 2018     Another inspirational example for #IWD. Former Sports student, Nicola Adams, more than fulfilled the high expectations staff had of her when she finished her course...      8th March 2018     Another top ambassador for #InternationalWomensDay:

Former student and current apprentice, Ellie Hughes, has become a key part of the great work carried out by Rochdale Boroughwide Housing in the community #NAW2018      8th March 2018     We've had loaaads going on around our campuses for #InternationalWomensDay Be sure to grab Learner Engagement Officer, Karen Harris, to join in her activities or grab a picture if you see her!      8th March 2018     As part of #InternationalWomensDay we're showing off some of our former female students who have built successful careers or achieved notable feats.

Lacey-Lee Stringer left us as one of our most promising UPS students and went on to work in military logistics      8th March 2018     In celebration of #InternationalWomensDay, we've collated some of our many successful current/former female students.

We've also added a few of our favourite famous inspirational quotes too. As much as she wishes she did, Michelle Obama didn't actually study here...      8th March 2018     A message to anybody looking to book a table for our multi-award-winning Riverside Restaurant's special Mother's Day menu, we are now fully booked.

We apologise any inconvenience, maybe you could attend another one of our superb theme nights... https://www.hopwood.ac.uk/public-facilities/riverside-restaurant/our-theme-nights      7th March 2018     Here's another example of one of our apprentices who've been making a success of themselves with a local employer. Paul's bosses have had nothing but praise for him! #NAW2018      7th March 2018     APPRENTICESHIP VACANCY: We have another apprenticeship vacancy on offer, this one is for a Business Administration apprenticeship in Manchester. https://www.hopwood.ac.uk/about/jobs/business-administration-apprentice-manchester-nmw-age-related  #NAW2018  #apprenticeships  #careers      7th March 2018     APPRENTICESHIP VACANCY: We have an Automotive apprenticeship vacancy for any of you looking to pursue a career as an Automotive Technician. https://www.hopwood.ac.uk/about/jobs/automotive-apprentice-rochdale-7280-ann  #NAW2018  #apprenticeships  #careers      7th March 2018     Would you like to win a £20 voucher for our multi-award-winning Riverside Restaurant or Riverside Salon? Then take our short International Women's Day quiz! https://www.surveymonkey.co.uk/r/DTKV65C      6th March 2018     For #NAW2018, we're showing off some of our best and brightest apprentices who are working with companies across Greater Manchester.

Today, we'd like to show how successful you can be when retraining as a mature apprentice. Sarah has become a valuable team member at Rochdale Boroughwide Housing and continues to go from strength to strength! 
Apprenticeships in Rochdale, Middleton and Heywood      6th March 2018         6th March 2018     #apprenticeshipsin6words Both an education and a career #NAW2018 
Apprenticeships in Rochdale, Middleton and Heywood      6th March 2018     Would you like to win a £20 voucher for our Riverside Restaurant or Riverside Salon? Take part in our International Women's Day quiz for your chance to win! https://www.surveymonkey.co.uk/r/DTKV65C      6th March 2018     Big thanks to Curtis from Rochdale and District Mind for speaking to our students about what services Mind can provide regarding mental health.

Curtis will be available at our Rochdale campus foyer today 11.30am-2pm.      5th March 2018     Our staff have been promoting and embracing 
Action for Happiness' Mindful March 2018 Calendar. Our dinners tasted better than ever today...      5th March 2018     At Hopwood Hall College, we currently have 400+ apprentices studying at 300+ employers across Greater Manchester 
Apprenticeships in Rochdale, Middleton and Heywood  #apprenticeshipfacts #NAW2018      Load More                                                     Vacancies  Contact  Prospectus  Riverside Restaurant  Riverside Salon  Hopwood Theatre  Sports Arena  Cashless Portal  Report an Absence         Middleton Campus  Rochdale Road,  Middleton,  M24 6XH   Tel: 0161 643 7560   Textphone: 01706 650 904   enquiries@hopwood.ac.uk     Rochdale Campus  St. Mary’s Gate,  Rochdale,  OL12 6RY   Tel: 01706 345 346   Textphone: 01706 650 904   enquiries@hopwood.ac.uk     Training @ Hopwood Rochdale Road,  Middleton,  M24 6XH  Tel: 0161 654 4373  Textphone: 01706 650 904  training@hopwood.ac.uk          Explore 16-19 Study Programmes  Discover Adult & Higher Education  Search Apprenticeships  Life at Hopwood    Apply Now       Copyright © 2017 Hopwood Hall College | All Rights Reserved | Site design and build I-COM                        