UK Gender Pay Gap 
Report 2017

Eng

Wide

Contents

•

Introduction

• Why equal pay and the gender pay gap are not the same

• Our results – based on hourly rates

• Our results - bonus

• Our results – quartiles

• Our actions

• Declaration

Eng

Wide

Introduction

We value our people and the contribution they make. We pay them fairly for the work they do and we are 
committed to fostering a working environment where there are equal opportunities for all our people so they 
can fulfil their potential and contribute to our business success, irrespective of their gender. 

Under new legislation that came into force in April 2017, UK employers with
more than 250 employees are required to publish their gender pay gap by
April 2018. The regulations are intended to encourage employers to take
informed action to close their gender pay gaps where one exists.

Companies must report the following: 

• Mean and median gender pay gap in hourly pay

This report reflects the calculations required under this UK legislation for
Lantmännen Unibake UK.

• Mean and median bonus gender pay gap

Lantmännen Unibake UK welcomes and supports the pay gap reporting
across the public and private sector and has long been committed to equal
opportunities and continues to make gender irrelevant on our decisions on
pay. We remunerate and reward our people based on performance and
contribution, regardless of gender.

• Proportion of men and women who receive a bonus

• Distribution of men and women across pay quarterlies

Mean vs. median
The Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations specifically require both the median and mean to be reported. These metrics are complementary, and illustrate different aspects of the distribution of pay across an organisation. 
The median is a statistic commonly used in analysing both internal pay tendency and external market norms, because it looks at the central tendency of the market or sample, showing the middle-most salary of a sample.
Calculating the median involves taking all salaries in a sample, lining them up in order from lowest to highest, and picking the middle-most salary.
The mean is the overall average of the whole sample and thus can be subject to the influences of any extremely high or low salaries at the top or bottom of the sample. In other words, the mean is much more subject to skewing by a small number of outliers.

Eng

Wide

Why equal pay and the gender pay gap are 
not the same

Equal Pay
This is about whether a man and
woman performing the same work,
at
in the same
organisation receive the same pay.

the same level,

National Average
The UK national mean gender pay
gap is 18.1%*
*Office of National Statistics 2016

Nationally, one of the main reasons
for the gender pay gap is more men
are likely to hold senior positions.

The Gender Pay Gap
Shows the pay gap between
the earnings for both men and
women across an organisation.

Lantmännen Unibake UK
At the time the snapshot was taken
(April 2017) we had 74% males and
26% females working for us. The
Lantmännen Unibake UK workforce
consists of significantly more males
than females. This profile reflects
the nature of our sector.

Eng

Wide

Our results – based on hourly rates

Gender pay gap based on hourly rates (at April 2017)

What does our data tell us?

This figure indicates the mean
(average) based on hourly pay
showing we pay our men 3.2% less
on average than females.

This figure indicates the median
(mid-point) hourly pay for men and
women showing that it is equal.

The analysis of our data tells us that our average gender pay
gap is not the same as the current UK national average.

This is to do with the workforce split of males and females and
arises as a result of two key factors:

• We employ more men than women in our manufacturing
operations, which is where we have the majority of our lower
paid employees.

•

The majority of female employees are in specialist roles and
therefore on a higher salary than the employees within
manufacturing operations.

Eng

Wide

Our results - bonus

Mean
bonus gap

Median
bonus gap

Bonus gender pay gap
These figures show the mean (average) and median (mid-point) bonus gap.

Mean – this figure is due to having more men that receive long service
awards and senior management bonuses than women and the fact that we
have fewer women in the most senior positions within our business.

Median – this figure is due to having more women in specialist roles than
men. These roles are paid bonuses at a higher value compared to the value
of the long service awards.

Proportion of employees who receive a bonus

Total males 516 – bonus paid to 76.

Total females 183 – bonus paid to 37.

Eng

Wide

Our results – quartiles

Lower
Quartile

Lower
Middle 
Quartile

78.9%          21.1%

75.9%          24.1%

Upper 
Middle 
Quartile

Upper 
Quartile

What does our data tell us?

There is a significantly greater proportion
of male employees across all levels of our
UK business and this is a direct reflection
of
the nature of our business and the
sector in which we operate.

Women are less well represented in the
bottom quartile compared to the other
three quartiles and this is a result of us
having fewer women in our manufacturing
operations teams.

70.1%          29.9%

71.7%          28.3%

Quartiles represent the pay rates from the lowest to the highest for our employees, split into four 
equal sized groups. These graphs show the percentage of men and women in each quartile.

74%

26%

Eng

Wide

Our actions

A key part of our company strategy is to
attract, motivate, develop and retain the best talent.

Diversity is incredibly important to us at Lantmännen Unibake UK and we’re equally proud to 
embrace diversity within our business. 

We understand that our manufacturing operations workforce has a greater proportion of males. 

We have long been committed to equal opportunities and continue to make gender irrelevant on 
our decisions on recruitment and pay. We remunerate and reward our people based on 
performance and contribution, regardless of gender.

We offer family friendly policies that include: 
•
•
•

enhanced maternity / paternity pay
flexible and agile working options
and we support part-time working

We continue to monitor this. 

How do we compare 
with other businesses?

Every company is different, so 
direct comparisons are hard to 
make. 

However our gender pay gap 
(using the median figure) is 0% 
while data released by the 
Office for National Statistics 
shows that the national gender 
pay gap for all employees is 
18.1%.  

Eng

Wide

Declaration

We hereby confirm that the information and data set out in this report, as required under the 
Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017, is accurate. 

Ian Powell

Interim HR Director

Tim Robinson

Managing Director

Lantmännen Unibake UK 

Lantmännen Unibake UK

3rd April 2018

3rd April 2018

Eng

Wide

