Anschutz Sports Holdings Limited

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 
Page 1 of 2

Our Results
As part of the analysis of pay we have undertaken in producing our gender pay statistics we are con(cid:29)dent that women and men are paid equally for 
doing equivalent jobs across the company. 
Gender  Split
 The total number of employees working for Anschutz Sports Holdings Ltd (*as of 5th April 2017) totalled 363 
(187 women and 176 men).
Hourly Rate
Mean

Fairly even 

Median

48%    

52%

split

43.3%

Hourly rate gap

41.2%

In favour of men

The mean (cid:29)gure is the di(cid:30)erence 
between the average of men’s and 

women’s pay.

In favour of men

The median (cid:29)gure is the di(cid:30)erence 

between the midpoints in the 
ranges of men’s and women’s pay.

Our gender pay gap is strongly in(cid:31)uenced by the hourly rate 
and gender make up of our event sta(cid:30) working at The O2 
(total of 145 sta(cid:30) -70% (100) female, 30% (45) male). If we 
were reporting only on our salaried employees the gender 
pay gap would be 19% median and 35.9% mean. This 
statistic indicates the signi(cid:29)cance that the hourly paid 
workforce have on the gender pay gap.

Bonus Pay

In receipt of a bonus 

34%

22%

Quartiles

Mean

62.6%

Bonus pay gap

Median

16.7%

In favour of men

In favour of men

The mean (cid:29)gure is the di(cid:30)erence 
between the average of men’s 

and women’s bonus pay.

The median (cid:29)gure is the di(cid:30)erence 

between the midpoints in the ranges of 

men’s and women’s bonus pay.

The quartiles show the proportion of males and female full-pay relevant employees in four pay bands. To calculate the bands we have ranked the full-pay 
relevant employees from highest to lowest paid, divided these into 4 equal parts (’quartiles’) and calculated the percentage of men and women in each of 
these quartiles.

Our pay quartiles show us that 38% of all male employees occupy roles in the upper quartile compared to just 13% of females.  Conversely, 30%  of all 
females occupy roles in the lower quartile compared to 18% of men.  In a normal distribution curve, we would expect 25% of each gender in each quartile. 

35%    

65%

Lower 
Quartile

67%

33%    

Lower 
Middle
Quartile

48%

52%    

Upper 
Middle
Quartile

26%

74%    

Upper 
Quartile

Anschutz Sports Holdings Limited

2017 Gender Pay Gap Report 
Page 2 of 2

Our 5 Commitments

1

2

3

4

5

Maintain a fair approach to recruitment

•  Continue to review approach and policies to ensure we aren’t excluding females from Senior roles or promotions.
•  O(cid:30)er further training to hourly sta(cid:30) to ensure they are aware of and know how to apply for permanent positions.
•  Ensure at least one female is in every (cid:29)rst round interview pool for all Head of Department and above roles.
•  Continue to implement unconscious bias refresher training.

Promote a culture of inclusion 

•  Actively promote our existing policies on (cid:31)exible working and shared parental leave.

Ensure all pay and reward processes are gender neutral

•  Create salary ranges for each job band.
•  Carry out an annual salary benchmarking exercise to ensure functional sector di(cid:30)erences are fair and equal to positions.
•  Re(cid:29)ne our job evaluation and grading process with the support of external reward consultants. 
•  Create management information in form of a dashboard for Senior Management to include % male/female adhoc pay increases, 

bonus amounts by gender, promotion opportunities and appointments annually.

•  Ensure we continue to moderate pay and progression decisions fairly.

Recognise and address behaviours/conversations that may not be re(cid:31)ective of the culture 
we aim to achieve

• Implement acceptable behaviour awareness programme, across the business.

Proactively engage with workforce to support new engagement and learning & 
development initiatives regardless of gender.

We believe in job opportunities for everyone irrelevant of gender and seek to have an inclusive and diverse workforce in all areas of the business.  
This is a priority focus for the foreseeable future.  As a business we will ask tough questions and work through answers internally.

Signed:

Tom Miserendino 
President & CEO,  Anschutz Sports Holdings Limited

