GENDER PAY GAP REPORT

As of 5 April 2017 

Travellers Tales (UK) Limited
Gender Pay Gap as of 5 April 2017 

Travellers Tales (UK) Limited is committed to providing equal opportunities for
all our employees and for all
job applicants. We hire, train, promote and
compensate employees without regard to gender (or other factors prohibited
by applicable equality legislation).

Equal Pay
Across Travellers Tales’ business, our employees receive equal pay for equal
work, regardless of gender.

Understanding our Gender Pay Gap
Like many UK companies, we have a gender pay gap - our mean is 20.9% and
our median is 21.8%. This reflects the greater number of men than women in
senior management roles, as well as the related strong retention rate within the
In addition, whilst our female/male employee
company’s senior leadership.
ratio is broadly in line with industry norms, we recognise that
female
participation in the games industry as a whole is comparatively low. We are
taking proactive steps, such as working directly with universities in relation to
graduate roles,
female population across all disciplines,
including programming which has been traditionally male-dominated.

to increase our

Ongoing Efforts
As part of our ongoing efforts relating to equal opportunities, we have an active
programme of development and leadership training. We are determined to
continue to address areas in our business where women are under-represented
and to identify any barriers to progression. We will monitor the different stages
of our employee life cycle, from recruitment through development, promotion
and annual pay reviews, to help us identify relevant actions throughout the
company to reduce our gender pay gap.

We are supportive of part-time and flexible working arrangements for all
employees, regardless of gender; and we offer great flexibility in daily hours
around a core-hours requirement for all development staff. We are also
reviewing our shared parental leave package.

I can confirm on behalf of Travellers Tales (UK) Limited that the information 
provided is accurate.

Tom Stone, Statutory Director of Travellers Tales (UK) Limited 

The gender pay gap is different from the concept of equal pay. The gender pay
gap is not job-specific, but rather illustrates the differences in average pay (both
median and mean) between women and men in an organisation. Equal pay refers
to any pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs,
similar jobs or work of equal value.

Gender pay gap based on hourly pay 

Gender pay gap based on bonus for 

for male and female employees 

male and female employees

Median

Mean

21.8%

20.9%

Median

Mean

9.5%

17.1%

Proportion (%) of male and female 
employees who received a bonus 

Males

Females

72%

58 %

Proportion (%) of male and female employees in each quartile pay band

QUARTILE PAY BAND

4th Quartile (Upper)

3rd Quartile (Upper middle)

2nd Quartile (Lower middle)

1st Quartile (Lower)

MALES in quartile 
(%)

FEMALES in quartile 
(%)

95%

94%

81%

86%

5%

6%

19%

14%

Note that, on 5 April 2017, Travellers Tales (UK) Limited employed 495 male employees and
62 female employees and this has had an impact on these quartile figures.

