 

 

 

Gavin Jones Gender Pay Gap Statement 2017 - 2018 

 
We are an employer required by law to carry out Gender Pay Reporting under the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 
 
This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average earnings of 
men and women in our organisation; it does not involve publishing individual employees’ data. 

We can use these results to assess: 

the levels of gender equality in our workplace 
the balance of male and female employees at different levels 

 
 
  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded. 

 
Is the Gender Pay Gap the same as Equal Pay?         No 
 
What is the Gender Pay Gap? 
The gender pay gap shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women in a 
workforce. Gender pay reporting is different to equal pay 

What is Equal Pay? 
Equal pay deals with the pay differences between men and women who carry out the same jobs, 
similar jobs or work of equal value.  

 

 

 
Our Results 
 
A negative figure means that female results are higher than male results.   
 

1)     Mean Gender Pay Gap = -15.56%   
 
2)     Median Gender Pay Gap = -23.48%                        
3)     Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap = 41.62%    
 
4)     Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap = 43.09% 
 
5a)   Proportion of Males receiving a bonus    
         payment = 15.59% 
 
5b)  Proportion of Females receiving a bonus  
        payment = 54.55% 
 

                                          
 

6)   The proportion of males and female employees in each quartile pay band: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

Lower Quartile

Lower Mid Quartile

Upper Mid Quartile

Upper Quartile

2%

98%

male

female

6%

11%

15%

male

female

male

female

male

female

94%

89%

85%

 

 

 
Our Statement 
 
At Gavin Jones we are very proud of our general Gender Pay Gap results.  We are delighted in this first 
year of reporting to be able to demonstrate these results to our employees, our clients and the wider 
population. 
 
In terms of hourly mean and median pay calculations our figures demonstrate that females are paid 
more than men however this difference is due to the fact that we can also see from the figures that we 
employ significantly more males than females with the largest difference in figures being in the lower 
quartile.   
 
The ratio of females to males increases in the middle two quartiles of our entire team.  The reason 
being that most women are employed in support function and management positions, these positions 
attract higher pay which also influences the overall pay results. 
 
The Bonus payments are higher to men than to women.  This is accounted for by the fact that there are 
more men in operational and senior management positions, which attract higher bonuses.   
 
By encouraging more women applicants in general and in these specific, higher paid positions we hope 
to recruit a higher proportion of females in the future.  Over time, this would affect the ratio of the 
bonus figures as well as the balance of male to female workers. 
 
The bonus difference can also be accounted for by the effect of part-time and flexible working, requests 
for both are mainly received by females.  Bonus figures are pro-rated to reflect the reduced hours and 
salary however; this is not taken into account by the Gender Pay Gap Reporting figures.  
 
Our Aims  
 
We would  like  to  increase  the  overall  number of  females  in  our  business  and  we  will  take  steps  to 
encourage more women applicants in the operational areas of our organisation, including front line 
operations, operations management and sales.  These are the areas where we are male orientated and 
as a combination, they make up the major proportion of the organisation.  We recognise that this is a 
long-term project specifically as our business is not generally perceived to be female orientated. It will 
require work with schools and colleges amongst others to change this view. 
 
As the majority of operational management positions are appointed through promotion from front line 
roles, this should go on to affect the difference in our bonus figures as more females progress to the 
positions attracting the higher bonuses. 
 

 

 

 

Signed  
Managing Director 

                                                      Dated 1st March 2018 

