     Jump to main content  Jump to main navigation  Your browser appears to have Javascript disabled. Javascript is used on this website for key functionality such as list filters and form validation. Please consider enabling Javascript. You can find out how to do this in your browser by visiting enable-javascript.com     Hymans Robertson    Search     Visit us on Linkedin     Visit us on Twitter  Home News and Insights All News and Blogs Events Research and Publications Case studies Why Hymans? Why work with Hymans? Who we work with Independent, award-winning advice Abelica Global Corporate Social Responsibility Services Overview Pensions Investment Consulting Insurance Technology Team Careers Welcome Our Areas of Expertise Student Opportunities Experienced Opportunities Careers Blog Contact Contact us Our offices Get in touch  The Brain    Visit us on Linkedin     Visit us on Twitter       What are you looking for?     Our website uses cookies (what’s this?) . These cookies allow us to distinguish you from other users of our website, which helps us improve our website and to deliver many of the functions that make your browser experience more user-friendly. Some of the cookies that we use are essential for parts of the website to operate. By using this website you agree to our use of cookies. To find out more, including how to opt out, please read our Cookies Policy .  OK Privacy notice Subscribe Terms of Use Modern Slavery Statement Site map Trust Centre Gender Pay Gap Accessibility Gender Pay Gap New UK legislation means that all organisations employing more than 250 people must report on a number of key metrics to illustrate their gender pay gap. The gender pay gap measures the difference in average earnings for all male and female employees, regardless of their role or seniority. It provides a snapshot of the gender balance within an organisation, but is distinct from equal pay, which is about ensuring that men and women receive the same remuneration for carrying out work of equal value. We view the introduction of gender pay gap reporting requirements as an important development in the drive for genuine gender equality at work. It’s also a development that supports the work we are doing to create a more diverse and inclusive working environment. Our first gender pay gap report (published in January 2018) can be accessed here . If you have any questions about anything in this report please contact Gill Tait .  Menu  Privacy notice  Subscribe  Terms of Use  Modern Slavery Statement  Site map  Trust Centre  Gender Pay Gap  Accessibility Subscribe to our news and insights.  Enter email address   Sign up     Hymans Robertson  Copyright © 2018 Hymans Robertson LLP. All rights reserved.     