Agenda Item No. 3.4.2  

Manchester Health and Care Commissioning Board Meeting 

 

Agenda Item: 

3.4.2 

Date:  14 March 2018 

Report Title: 

Gender Pay Report 2018 

Prepared by: 

Stuart Jones, HR Analyst 

Presented by: 

Sharmila Kar, Director of Workforce and OD 

Summary of Report: 

This report sets out our headline gender pay gap 
figures, the reasons why we have a pay gap and how 
we are addressing it. 

Recommendation: 

The MHCC Board are asked to note the report. 

Strategic Objective: 

and promote healthy lifestyles  

  To improve the health and wellbeing of people 

in Manchester  

  To strengthen the social determinants of health 

  To enable people and communities to be active 

partners in their health and wellbeing  

  To achieve a sustainable system 

Outcome of Impact 
Assessments completed 
(e.g. Quality IA or  
Equality IA): 
Outline public engagement 
– clinical, stakeholder and 
public/patient: 

The report is an analysis of the pay differentials 
between men and women.  

 
N/A 

 

 

Board Assurance 
Framework Risk: 

 
 

 

1 

Agenda Item No. 3.4.2  

Introduction 

 
 
1. 
 
By April 2018, public, private and voluntary sector organisations with 250 or more 
employees will have had to report on their gender pay gaps, using six different 
measures. 
 
In order to be able to do this by the ‘snapshot date’ of 31 March 2017 (public sector 
employers) or 5 April 2017 (private and voluntary sector employers), we have pulled 
together some basic information (a ‘snapshot’) about our employees which will 
enable us to calculate our gender pay gap and publish our first report on MHCC’s 
own website and on a government site, by 4 April 2018. Please note that the report 
addresses the gender pay gap for MCCG employees only as MCC will need to 
publish their own report as this is a statutory requirement. We will aim to produce an 
integrated report going forward.  
 
This report will need to be published on an annual basis.  
 
2. 
 
Nationally, in 2016 the gender pay gap for full-time employees was 9.4%, meaning 
that average pay for full-time female employees was 9.4% lower than for full-time 
male employees. The gap nationally was down from 17.4% in 1997. The gap for all 
employees, full- and part-time, was 18.1%, down from 27.5% in 1997.  
 
The Government considers that this rate of progress is too slow, and has committed 
to closing the gender pay gap within a generation.  
 
  2.1 What are the regulations?  
 
There are two sets of regulations:  
 

Rationale for Gender Pay Reporting 

  The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.3 

These apply to private and voluntary sector organisations.  

  The Equality Act 2010 (Specific Duties and Public Authorities) Regulations 
2017.4 These apply to public bodies. In due course, there will be additional 
regulations for Northern Ireland. 

The gender pay gap reporting measures 

 
3. 
 
The gender pay gap is defined as the difference between the mean or median hourly 
rate of pay that male and female colleagues receive. We are required to publish six 
calculations showing the following: 
 

  Average gender pay gap as a mean average- this is the difference between 

average hourly earnings of men and women. 

  Average gender pay gap as a median average -  the difference between the 

midpoints in the ranges of hourly earnings of men and women 

 

2 

Agenda Item No. 3.4.2  

  Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average - The difference between 

the median bonus pay paid to male relevant employees and that paid to 
female relevant employees 

  Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average - The proportions of 
male and female relevant employees who were paid bonus pay during the 
relevant period  

  Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females 

receiving a bonus payment 

  The proportions of male and female full-pay relevant to employees in the 

lower, lower middle, upper middle and upper quartile pay bands 

 

3.  The breakdown of MCCG  workforce by Gender: 

MCCG Workforce  
Headcount 

 

Male 

Female 

Male % 

Female % 

81 

199 

29% 

71% 

4. 

MCCG Results: A snapshot  

4.1 Average gender pay gap as a mean average 

 

Male 

Female 

Difference 

Pay Gap % 

Mean average 

£20.87 

£20.49 

£0.37 

1.79% 

 

4.2 Average gender pay gap as a median average 

 

Male 

Female 

Difference 

Pay Gap % 

Median average 

£18.01 

£20.47 

-£2.46 

-13.64% 

 

While we are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent 
jobs across the CCG, the main reason for small organisation-wide gender gap is an 
imbalance of male and female colleagues across the organisation. At the moment 
there are fewer men than women within the CCG, as well as a higher proportion of 
men relative to women in lower bands. 

4.3 Proportion of males and females when divided into four groups ordered 
from lowest to highest pay quartiles. (See figure 2) 

Pay Quartiles :  
4 = Highest,  1 = Lowest 
Quartile 1 
Quartile 2 
Quartile 3 
Quartile 4 
 

 

Female  Male 

43 
50 
56 
50 

27 
17 
17 
20 

Female 
% 
61% 
75% 
77% 
71% 

Male 
% 
39% 
25% 
23% 
29% 

3 

 

 

Figure 1 

Figure 2 

Agenda Item No. 3.4.2  

 

  The larger number of female employees and the broader spread 

across mid to higher pay bands results in a higher Median hourly rate. 
  Male employees have a lower Median hourly rate, mainly as a result of 

their clustering around specific pay bands.  

 

 

4 

Agenda Item No. 3.4.2  

 

 

4.4 Average bonus gender pay gap as a mean average  

Not applicable to NHS Manchester Clinical Commissioning Group as bonus 
payments do not form part of employee terms and conditions of employment. 

4.5 Average bonus gender pay gap as a median average  

Not applicable to NHS Manchester Clinical Commissioning Group as bonus payment 
do not form part of employee terms and conditions of employment. 

4.6 Proportion of males receiving a bonus payment and proportion of females 
receiving a bonus payment  

Not applicable to NHS Manchester Clinical Commissioning Group as bonus 
payments do not form part of employee terms and conditions of employment.  

How we are addressing Equality and Inclusion  

5. 
 

Gender will form a part of our inclusion and social value strategy, and will help build 
a culture at MHCC where everyone can be their whole selves and produce their best 
work. If we are going to achieve this culture, we know that we must continue to be 
proactive in our approach to all forms of inclusion including gender. We will also be 
doing some further work on flexible /agile working.  
 
MHCC have appointed a strategic lead for Inclusion and Social Value for a fixed term 
period to develop our strategy and action plan.  
 
We aim to recruit from the widest possible talent pool. Our values based recruitment 
and selection guide along with the training we are going to commission on 
recruitment and selection will help our hiring managers ensure that the language in 
job adverts is gender neutral and inclusive; will develop diverse candidate lists for 
jobs; and will help to understand the importance of interviewing people with diverse 
panels in order to avoid unconscious biases.  
 
Once we have the right people, we want them to stay. To support them we 
developed a comprehensive OD plan. There is still a lot more to do and we will 
continue to focus on building a more diverse workforce and inclusive culture at 
MHCC. 

 

5 

