 

Gender Pay Report 2017 
 

This report sets out ED&F Man’s Gender Pay Gap 

and relates to Agman Holdings Limited. 

 It excludes other UK entities within the Group 

that employ fewer than 250 people. 

ED&F Man Holdings Limited  
Agman Holdings Limited 
3 London Bridge Street 
London, SE1 9SG, United Kingdom 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7089 8000 
 

 

Introduction 

 

Legislation came into force in April 2017 requiring UK employers with more than 250 employees to publish 

their gender pay gap.  

 

It is important that all our people are treated fairly and have equal access to the opportunities that our 

businesses offer. Encouragingly, in our last employee survey, 88% of respondents said that ED&F Man 

respects the individual differences of our employees.  We are proud of that, and believe that the valuable 

perspectives of our workforce enable us to better understand and serve our customers.  Our diversity also 

helps us to innovate and compete effectively on a global scale.  

 

This report includes our statutory disclosures and commentary on the statistics. It also outlines some of the 

actions we are taking to address the gender pay gap and ensure fairness in our compensation practices. 

 

 

Statutory disclosures 

 

Gender pay and bonus gap 

 

Median  

Mean  

Hourly pay 

30%  

40%  

Bonus 

50%  

80%  

 

The table above shows our overall median and mean gender pay gap based on hourly rates of pay as at 5 

April 2017. The median figures are the difference between the midpoints in the ranges of pay/bonus 

received by men and women. The mean figures are the difference between the average pay/bonus 

received by men and women. 

 

It should be noted that average pay is not the same as equal pay and the figures do not compare men 

and women carrying out equivalent roles. 

 

Gender pay quartiles 

 

Lower  

Lower middle 

Upper middle 

Upper 

Men 

42% 

53% 

63% 

83% 

Women 

58% 

47% 

37% 

17% 

 

The table above shows the proportion of men and women employed in each of four pay quartiles, with an 

equal number of employees in each quartile (from the lowest paid to the highest paid), based on the 

hourly rate of pay. 

2 

 

 

Gender Pay Report 2017 | ED&F Man 

 

 

Proportion of male/female employees receiving a bonus  

 

The charts above show a 3% difference between the number of men and women being paid a bonus in 

 

the 12 months to 5 April 2017. 

 

 

Understanding the gap 

 

At ED&F Man we have a long-standing commitment to meritocracy and to the development of our people. 

Supporting this, our reward systems have been structured to promote consistency and fairness in pay 

practices.  

 

We are committed to ensuring that, on a like-for-like basis, men and women at ED&F Man are paid 

equally for doing equivalent roles at a similar performance level, and have an equal opportunity to 

earn a bonus. 

 

As the gender pay calculations are based on averages taken across the whole organisation, they do not 

take into account factors such as different levels of seniority and different functions.  

 

Analysis of our employment data shows that the key reasons for our gender pay gap are: 

 

• 

• 

• 

 

A higher proportion of men than women in more senior (higher paid) roles;  

A higher proportion of men than women in commercial roles (typically higher paid and receiving 

performance related incentives); and 

A lower proportion of women than men in the total workforce (60% men, 40% women). 

The lower proportion of women in senior and commercial roles adversely impacts our pay gap statistics.  

 

 

 

 

 

3 

 

Gender Pay Report 2017 | ED&F Man 

 

 

Gender split by level  

 

 

 

The chart opposite demonstrates 

the gender split between senior 

management, management and 

employee levels as at 5 April 2017. 

 

 

Actions to address the gap 

 

We have actively recruited talent via our Graduate Programme, with females accounting for 60% of our 

2017 intake, a significant step forward for the Group. In the longer time horizon, our female graduate 

talent will help to address the challenge we face in closing the seniority gap, through encouraging women 

into commercial and managerial positions.   

 

ED&F Man’s Group-wide commitment to diversity is outlined in our Diversity & Inclusion Strategy. Our 

leadership development programmes include a focus on diversity and we have developed equal 

opportunity & unconscious bias training to support the strategy. This builds on the culture & values 

programme that we implemented across 25 of our offices globally in 2016/17. Embracing diversity supports 

all five of ED&F Man’s core values: Respect, Integrity, Meritocracy, Entrepreneurship and Client Focus. 

 

We have a focus on gender diversity, including regular reporting of gender statistics to our Group 

Executive Committee. We track and closely monitor the progress of our female talent and continue to 

invest in initiatives to train, mentor and retain all talent. At a practical level, we support flexible working 

and offer maternity coaching in order to promote a supportive climate for families and employees seeking 

work-life balance. On our careers website, we publish testimonials from female employees to help attract 

more female applicants. Internally, we share stories that feature female role models, show how diversity 

adds value to our business and inspire women to achieve their career goals. We also promote networking 

and training events internally, such as the annual International Women’s Day and our Women’s Network. 

 

We confirm that the information reported in this document is accurate. 

 

Stuart Reed 

Chief People Officer 

st

21

 March 2018 

4 

 

 

Gender Pay Report 2017 | ED&F Man 

