Car Giant Ltd

Gender Pay Report 2017

Car Giant Ltd (“Cargiant”) is committed to being an equal opportunities employer and creating a workforce that is reflective of the community
and customers that we serve. All job opportunities at Cargiant are available to everyone regardless of gender.

The gender pay gap shows the differences in the average pay between men and women. It differs from equal pay, which deals with pay
differences between men and women who carry out the same job, similar jobs or work of equal value.

At the snap shot date of 5th April 2017, Cargiant employed 847 employees, of which 90.6% were male and 9.4% female.

90.6%

9.4%

Gender Pay And Bonus Pay Gap

Proportion Of Employees Receiving A Bonus

Cargiant is a used car dealership and is known for offering a wide range of cars at unbeatable prices. Based on a single 45 acre site in central London, Cargiant is
the largest car retailer in the world according to the Guinness World Records. Whilst known for car sales, 40% of our workforce works across a state of the art
workshop spread over 14 acres, where all vehicles are processed prior to sale.

As reflective of the wider automotive industry, Cargiant’s workforce is predominately male (90.6%). Our male employees occupy a broad range of positions with
varying pay grades: from car valetor to commission earning Sales Advisors to Directors; resulting in a positive mean gender pay gap. However, although only 9.4%
of our employees are female, many hold management positions within the Company (12.9%) resulting in a small negative median gender pay gap.

Cargiant operates a Good Time Keeping Bonus (“GTB”) scheme which all employees are eligible for. The small percentage (1.2%) of males that do not receive a
bonus are experienced car buyers who travel across the UK to attend auctions and therefore not based on our main site.

Due to most employees, regardless of gender, receiving a GTB the median bonus pay gap is significantly smaller than the mean bonus pay gap. The mean bonus
pay gap of 55.3% is reflective of the fact that more men are in positions such as Car Sales Advisors and Finance Business Managers, who are the biggest
commission earners in the Company.

Pay Quartiles

When looking at pay within each quartile we can see that women are evenly distributed, with the largest proportion in the upper middle quartile.
Women in this quartile predominantly work in a customer services capacity within the Sales and Collections departments and receive commission.

We know that our gender pay gap is not a pay issue, but a lack of female representation in some roles, with the industry as a whole being very
male dominated. However, more work needs to be done proactively recruit women across our business and to make roles with competitive
commission structure more attractive to women.

I confirm that Cargiant data and information reported is accurate
Michael Holahan, Finance Director

