UK gender pay 
gap reporting

What is gender

pay gap reporting?

The government now requires all UK companies with more than 250 employees to publish 
aggregated pay ﬁ gures for each gender. These ﬁ gures must be based on April’s pay data, with 
the ﬁ rst report relating to April 2017. 

The table below shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap, based on hourly rates of 
pay in April 2017. It also shows the mean and median diﬀ erence between bonuses paid to men 
and women at IG in the UK in the year up to 5 April 2017 (FY16).

Pay and bonus gap

Diﬀ erence between men and women (%)

Mean

15.61

30.21

Median

21.67

31.05

Hourly ﬁ xed pay

Bonus paid

Employees receiving a bonus

8%

92%

5%

95%

Key

■ received a bonus  ■ did not receive a bonus

This shows a 3% diﬀ erence between the number of men and women being paid a bonus for 
their performance in the UK in FY16.

Proportion of males and females

in each pay quartile

The below illustrates the gender distribution in our UK business across four equally sized 
pay quartiles, each containing 182 employees.

Men

Women  

Upper
quartile

Upper
middle
quartlie

Lower
middle
quartile

Lower
quartile

84%

82%

73%

60%

16%

18%

27%

40%

IG pays men and women equally for 
comparable roles across our business. Our 
gender pay gap is largely driven by the fact 
that we have more men than women in 
senior roles. We aspire to close the gender 
pay gap over time.

We are committed to having a representative 
workforce across all levels of the business. 
This commitment is evidenced by the fact that 
22% of IG’s executive committee and 33% of 
IG’s non-executive directors are female. We 
know there is still more to do to ensure equal 
gender representation at senior and middle 
management level, and we are addressing 
this by building a gender-diverse talent 
pipeline throughout the organisation. 

One of the drivers for lower levels of female 
representation in senior roles is the smaller 
female population within IG. In April 2017, 
24% of IG’s UK workforce was female and 
49% of our UK workforce was working in 
IT roles. We believe this low level of female 
representation is consistent with other 
organisations that have a high predominance 
of IT roles.

To put this into context, within the technology 
sector in 2016 only 16% of computer science 
graduates in the UK were female1. This level of 
female graduate talent presents a challenge 
for the technology sector. To address this 
and increase the recruitment of women in 
technology, we are actively engaging with 
organisations such as Code First Girls and 
supporting technology network events such 
as Women Who Code.

1 Data taken from the WISE campaign for gender balance in science, technology & engineering, including higher education statistics, 2016.

What we are doing about the

gender pay gap

We are undertaking a number of initiatives to address the 
imbalance, including:

 Women’s network
We established our women’s network in January 2018, to act as a communication channel 
to senior management. This will help to ensure that senior management understand the 
experience of women better and can respond eﬀ ectively.

 Fast tracking development
We are targeting high-performing women for progression through a range of career and 
personal development tools and learning programmes. This includes our commitment 
to create a leadership programme for aspiring and current female managers.

 Recruitment approaches
We are updating our recruitment methods to ensure we reach a broader talent pool.

 Future talent strategy
We are in the process of implementing a recruitment strategy that combines a number 
of approaches to attract females into technology roles early in their careers.

