Gender Pay Report 2017

BTG employees come from all walks of life and represent a diverse 
range of age, race, religion, gender, gender expression and sexual 
orientation. More  importantly, our  employees  offer  a  diversity  of 
opinions and perspective. We foster an open and inclusive culture 
that allows employees to understand and trust each other, and to 
listen  and  learn  from  each  other’s  experiences. We  believe  that 
having  such  a  culture  leads  us  to  better  business  decisions  and 
more innovative solutions to problems.  

BTG  recognises  the  responsibility  employers  have  in  actively  promoting  diversity  in  all  its 
forms  and  we  are  committed  to  encouraging  diversity,  including  gender  diversity,  at  all 
levels.    We  review  our  global  recruitment,  development  and  compensation  practices  on  an 
ongoing basis to ensure they are fair and equitable to all employees, and our employment-
related  practices  are  based  on  merit,  aiming  to  appoint  the  strongest  candidates  for  any 
given role. Our analysis gives us comfort that globally BTG’s equal pay practices are working 
effectively.  Men  and  women  are  paid  the  same  for  carrying  out  the  same  work  or  work  of 
equal  value,  and  we  see  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  average  salaries  between 
men and women in the same job band. In 2017 women working for BTG achieved a higher 
average merit pay increase than men and on average, women achieved a higher percentage of 
their target bonus pay.

MEASURING OUR UK GENDER PAY GAP 

Pay differences between women and men

Mean pay gap

+17.38%

ONS Great Britain 
mean pay gap*
+17.7%

Median pay gap

+11.43%

ONS Great Britain  
median pay gap*
+18.8%

Mean bonus pay gap

+24.20%

Median bonus pay gap

+20.40%

* As quoted by the Office for National Statistics

BTG’s  difference  in  average  pay  at  17.38%  is  due  to  proportionally  more  men  being  in 
senior,  higher  paid  roles.  The  gender  pay  gap  analysis  has  helped  BTG  understand 
where  these  differences  exist.  We  believe  historical  gender  prevalence  in  certain  roles 
may  be  a  contributing  factor,  especially  in  senior  technical,  sales  and  leadership  roles. 
More clearly identifying these gaps helps us better target our efforts to address them.

Calculating our UK gender pay gap:
Our  gender  pay  gap  data  is  compiled  and  reported  in  accordance  with 
UK  legislation  and  reflects  all  jobs,  at  all  levels  within  all  UK  legal  
entities  in  the  BTG  group  (approximately  433  employees  or  one  third  of  our 
global  workforce).  This  data  reflects  our  pay  gap  as  of  31  March  2017,  except 
where otherwise noted.
The  mean  gender  pay  gap  is  the  difference  in  the  average  hourly  pay  or  
average bonus between men and women.
The median represents the middle point of a population. If you separately lined 
up  all  the  women  and  all  the  men  in  BTG,  the  median  pay  gap  is  the 
difference  between  the  hourly  pay  rate  or  bonus  for  the  middle  woman 
compared to that of the middle man. 

While  the  focus  of  this  report  is  UK  employees,  we  aim  to  align  our 
employment practices globally.

Pay by Quartiles: 
Splitting  our  UK  employees  into  four  equal  sized  groups  from 
lowest pay rates to highest, these are the percentage of men and 
women in each quartile.

MEN  WOMEN

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

53%       47%

51%      49%

45%       55%

68% 

32% 

Proportion of BTG employees receiving bonus pay:

96.61%
males 

99.46%
females 

2 | BTG Gender Pay Report

ENSURING DIVERSITY

BTG  is  fortunate  to  have  diversity,  including  gender  diversity,  represented  at  our  most 
senior  levels.  Three  board  members  and  four  of  our  top  nine  leaders  are  women, 
including  BTG’s  CEO,  Dame  Louise  Makin.  In  addition,  given  the  historic  challenges  of 
attracting  a  diverse  candidate  base  into  certain  positions,  we  are  especially  proud  to 
have  an  increasing  number of successful professional women, who are in their roles on 
merit, leading our manufacturing sites and in senior technical and senior sales roles.  For 
example, while women have traditionally been under-represented in science, 44% of our 
current R&D leadership team is female.

BTG  has  several  programmes  in  place  to  identify,  develop,  and  recruit  talent  into 
the  company  such  as  the  graduate,  apprenticeship,  and  international  assignment 
programmes.  Each  of  these  programmes  have  attracted  a  diversity  of  talent,  including 
women,  for  example  36%  of  the  apprenticeship/graduates,  and  36%  of  international 
assignments over the last five years, are female.

BTG  offers  a  range  of  opportunities  to  develop  leadership  skills  including  mentoring, 
development events and training.  All employees are considered for these programmes, 
and  all  have  high  levels  of  female  participation.  BTG’s  commitment  to  providing  equal 
opportunities  is  also  reflected  in  its  employee  policies,  which  include  enhanced 
maternity  leave  alongside  paternity,  parental  leave  and  flexible  working  options. 
Additionally  we  encourage  diversity  in  our  industry  through  activities  such  as  hosting 
tours and presentations at our sites for school aged female students.

27% of our board 

members are  

women

44% of the top 
leadership are 

women 

* As of January 2018

3 | BTG Gender Pay Report

SUMMARY

BTG  is  committed  to  diversity  in  all  its  forms.  We  have  a  strong  foundation  with 
practices  and  programmes  that  ensure  equality,  and  a  commitment  to  regularly 
challenge ourselves to do more and assess our progress. We aim to be an employer of 
choice, where all employees have the opportunity for career development, and to be an 
organisation that employees are proud to work for. 

Declaration 

I confirm the information and data reported are accurate as collected on 31 March 2017 
and is in line with the UK government’s Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017.

Dame Louise Makin

btgplc.com

in  a  global  gender  equality 

In  2017,  BTG  was  ranked  5th  out  of  more  than  3,000 
companies 
index  by 
focused  on  accelerating 
Equileap,  an  organisation 
progress  toward  gender  equality  in  the  workplace.  The 
ranking  took  into  consideration  19  gender  equality 
criteria  such  as  leadership,  career  development,  work-
life balance, equal pay, family leave, as well as health & 
safety.

BTG and the BTG roundel logo are registered trademarks of BTG International Ltd

4 | BTG Gender Pay Report

