Gender Pay Gap Report

The Government has introduced new regulations that require all 
companies to publish, both internally and externally, information about 
the differences between men’s and women’s pay and bonuses.

Our Diversity Policy makes it clear that we are committed to eliminating unlawful and 
unfair discrimination in all aspects of our operation.

Looking across the organisation as a whole, there is no 
pattern of men and women being paid differently for doing the 
same jobs at the same level. Differences in experience, skills 
and performance mean that there are individual variations but 
during annual performance and salary reviews we actively 
address any unwarranted gaps in pay that may be identified. 
We also make regular checks to ensure that our policies and 
procedures are fair. 

The monitoring of our recruitment and selection procedures, 
to ensure that there is no discrimination, will be enhanced by a 
new applicant tracking system in which we are investing.

The information for our company is laid out in full below.

Overall, our figures indicate that men’s pay is on average 14% 
higher than women’s. The main driver for this is the different 
jobs that people do. More men than women are in technical 
roles, while more women than men are in administrative roles. 

During the measurement period, more men than women 
received payments under bonus schemes. These figures 
too are heavily influenced by people’s roles. A significant 
proportion of our primarily male technicians participate in 
a “Variable Pay Scheme” which relates to hitting quality 
and safety targets. This falls within the definition of a bonus 
scheme.

Differences in pay resulting from men and women doing 
different jobs is likely to affect most, if not all, companies in 
industries similar to ours. Fewer women than men choose 
to study science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) at school and university. This means that fewer 
choose, or are in a position to choose, technical careers. As 
part of our drive to address this, we work with primary and 
secondary schools, with colleges, with our customers and 
with industry bodies to promote interest in STEM subjects 
among children and young people. For example we currently 

t

0800 783 7761

e

talktotelent@telent.com

www.telent.com

@telent_UK 

linkedin.com/company/telent

have 25 Graduate and Apprentice STEMnet ambassadors engaging with educational establishments up and down the country, 
talking about their own careers and opportunities in the industry.

Addressing pay inequality is an issue for the UK as a whole and our industry faces particular challenges for which there is no 
quick fix. However, we are committed to playing our part in developing the necessary long-term solutions. 

Gender Pay Gap

Mean Gender Pay Gap 
This is the difference between the mean average men’s pay and women’s pay. 
When we add all men’s pay together and divide by the number of male 
employees, and compare to the figure we get when adding all women’s pay 
together and dividing by the number of female employees, we find that men are 
paid on average 14.10% more than women (mean average).

Median Gender Pay Gap 
The median average is arrived at by listing everyone’s pay, from lowest to highest 
and choosing the middle value. When we list out all pay from lowest to highest 
and take the male mid value and the female mid value (the median), the median 
male employee is paid 21.23% more than the median female employee.

Proportion Receiving a Bonus

Mean

14.10%
Median
21.23%

These figures show that more men than women received a bonus during the year, 
but that the mean average amount received by women was actually higher. The 
middle value, the median average was higher for men than for women.

40%

31%

Quartiles 

33%

14%

10%

14%

Mean Gap
-20%

Median Gap

11%

Quartiles are arrived at by grouping employees into 4 equal groups: from the 
highest paid 25% of people (4th quartile), through to the lowest paid 25% (1st 
quartile).
This diagram shows, for example, that a greater proportion of men than women 
are in the top 25% of pay (4th quartile). This is also primarily a result of the jobs 
people do.

67%

86%

90%

86%

Lower

(1st) Quartile

Lower Middle
(2nd) Quartile

Upper Middle
(3rd) Quartile

Upper

(4th) Quartile

I confirm that the data and information presented in this report are accurate and meet the 
requirements of the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017

Janice Meade, HR Director, telent

Note on these figures
The figures are calculated in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap 
Information) Regulations 2017
Figures for pay include basic pay, allowances, pay for piecework, pay for leave and shift 
premium pay. It only includes money payments so anything that is not money (such as 
benefits in kind or securities) is excluded. It is after amounts deducted for salary sacrifice
The pay figures are calculated from amounts paid in April 2017

Bonuses include anything that relates to profit sharing, productivity, performance, 
incentive and commission. They must be received in the form of cash, vouchers, 
securities, securities options, and interests in securities. Non-consolidated bonuses are 
included. Long service awards with a monetary value (cash, vouchers or securities) are 
also included but any other type of non-monetary award under this category, such as 
extra annual leave, is treated as a benefit in kind and excluded.
The bonus figures are calculated from amounts paid between May 2016 and April 2017

t

0800 783 7761

e

talktotelent@telent.com

www.telent.com

@telent_UK 

linkedin.com/company/telent

