  

Gender Pay Report   

Based on data from April 2017   

Introduction  

Ardingly College is required by law to publish an annual gender pay gap report. This is the report for 
the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.This report provides all the necessary results based on current 
data. This report has been prepared in line with the draft statutory instrument, The Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2016.  

Mean Gender Pay Gap  

The mean gender pay gap for Ardingly College is 8.1% which is significantly lower than other 
organisations that have a similar number of employees.    

Median Gender Pay Gap  

The median gender pay gap for Ardingly College is 8.6% which is also significantly lower than other 
organisations that have a similar number of employees.   

Bonus Payments  

There have been no bonus payments made to staff at Ardingly College during the year 2016-17.  

Pay Quartiles  

 

  

Band   Males  

Females  

Description  

A  

32%  

68%  

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them at or below the lower quartile  

B  

46%  

54%  

C  

38%  

62%  

D  

47%  

53%  

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the lower quartile but at or below the 
median  

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the median but at or below the upper 
quartile  

Includes all employees whose standard hourly rate places 
them above the upper quartile  

Underlying Causes of Gender Pay Gap – Ardingly College  

Within Ardingly College, more women are employed than men (245 women (60%), 167 men (40%)). 
The data shows that 68% of the employees in Band A are women and 32% men. The percentage of 
male employees increases throughout the remaining Bands, particularly in Band B (46%) and Band D 
(47%).   

An analysis of the quartiles shows that males are over-represented in the top band (D) and in the 
second lowest band (B). Females are over-represented in the lowest band (A) and third quartile (C). 
This can be explained by the higher number of female staff in our Domestic Services, Cleaning and 
Catering roles which are at the lowest end of our pay bands. Male staff are more likely to be in Band 
B, which includes roles which require some level of qualification eg Stewards, Grounds and 
Maintenance.  

In the top salary quartile there are proportionately more male staff. Although our Senior 
Management Team have an equal number of male and female staff, at the middle management 
level there is currently an under-representation of women.   

It is also worth noting that the analysis includes peripatetic staff who are paid at an hourly rate 
(particularly Visiting Music Teachers and Sports Coaches). As they are paid just for actual hours 
worked, their hourly rate tends to be higher than that of equivalent full-time permanently employed 
staff, due to inclusion of holiday and preparation time included in the hourly rate. This has meant 
that more of these staff are included in the higher quartiles.   

The mean and median figures also do not take account of pay before salary sacrifice deductions such 
as childcare vouchers, school fees and pension. The gender pay gap before such salary sacrifice 
deductions is reduced to a mean of 6.5% and a median of 5.3%, due to the fact that more female 
staff than male staff have salary sacrifice arrangements in place.  

Across the UK economy as a whole, men are more likely than women to be in management roles, 
while women are more likely than men to be in administrative, domestic and catering roles at the 
lower end of the organisation. In addition, men are more likely to be in transport, steward, grounds, 
maintenance and IT-related roles, which attract higher rates of pay than other roles at similar levels 
of seniority. Women are also more likely than men to have had breaks from work that have affected 
their career progression, for example to bring up children. They are also more likely to work part-
time, and many of the jobs that are available across the UK on a part-time basis are relatively low 
paid.  

This pattern from the UK economy as a whole is reflected in the make-up of Ardingly College 
workforce, where the majority of administrative and domestic staff are women, while the majority 
of technical, maintenance, and management roles are held by men.   

How does Ardingly College’s gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations?  

The vast majority of organisations have a gender pay gap, and we are pleased to be able to say 
that Ardingly College’s gap compares favourably with that of other organisations.   

The mean and median gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the October 2017  
Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17.4% 
and 18.4% respectively.  At 8.1% and 8.6% Ardingly College’s mean and median gender pay gap 

is, therefore, significantly lower than both that for the whole economy. We are awaiting further 
data from the Education sector.   

What is Ardingly College doing to address its gender pay gap?  

While Ardingly College’s gender pay gap compares favourably with that of organisations across the 
UK, it is committed to doing everything that it can to reduce the gap.   

To date, the steps that Ardingly College has taken to promote gender pay equality are:  

• 

• 

In September 2016 and September 2017 we have taken action to increase the pay rate of 
our lowest paid staff. Increases of 3% (rather than 1% for the general staff population) have 
been awarded for the last two years. We plan to continue this with the aim of having the 
lowest pay rate of £9.00 per hour by 2020. This increase should help to reduce the mean 
pay gap between men and women.  
  
In September 2017 the Prep School Teacher salary scale was revised to reduce the number 
of pay points, meaning that progression will be less based on age and extensive years of 
experience, which has in the past tended to favour male staff who are less likely to take a 
career break. The Senior School teacher salary scale will be similarly revised from 
September 2018.   

• 

The  following statistics are closely monitored:   

• 
• 
• 

the proportions of men and women applying for jobs and being recruited;  
the proportions of men and women leaving the organisation; 
the numbers of men and women in each pay band;  

• 

the take-up of flexible working arrangements by gender within the College;  

• 
 
Evidence suggests that in 2016-17 a higher percentage of women apply for and take-up 
flexible working arrangements. There is also a significant amount of women not returning to 
work after maternity leave, in some cases due to the inability of the College to meet their 
flexible working request. In publicising our flexible working policy we aim to make it clear 
that employees in all areas and levels of the organisation will be considered for flexible 
working regardless of their role, gender and level of seniority and that flexible working need 
not be limited to part-time working.   

• 

The use of the Staff Council forum to discuss the issue of gender pay equality and identify 
other potential initiatives to address the pay gap.  

None of these initiatives will, of themselves, remove the gender pay gap - and it may be several 
years before some have any impact at all. In the meantime, Ardingly College is committed to 
reporting on an annual basis on what it is doing to reduce the gender pay gap and the progress that 
it is making.  

In the coming year, Ardingly College is also committed to:  

• 

Introducing a new Senior School Teacher pay structure with a reduction in pay-points, so 
that progression is based less on year of service  

•  Continuing to increase the pay rate for the lowest paid staff with the aim of having the 

lowest pay rate of £9 per hour by 2020  

• 

The introduction of a remuneration and benefits policy, including greater transparency for 
the remuneration of support staff roles. Feedback from our staff attitude survey suggests 
that staff in support services feel that their pay is low compared to the market rate and to 
others within the organisation. We intend to review the way we evaluate and benchmark 
support staff roles to ensure parity of pay for work of equal value.  

Glossary of Terms  

Employees include all individuals on the Ardingly College payroll on 5th April 2017. This includes 
salaried employees and those who are peripatetic and paid at an hourly rate according to hours 
worked (eg Music Teachers, Sports Coaches).  

Hourly pay has been calculated as the sum of base pay, holiday pay, maternity pay, allowance pay 
and any other substantive or contractual payments divided by the number of contracted hours. 
within the relevant pay period. For teachers who do not have a set number of working hours we 
have based the hourly rate on an assumption of working 40 hours per week for 52 weeks per year. 
Pay also includes deductions as a result of any salary sacrifice payments made by the employee.   

Eligible employees are allocated into pay band quartiles based on their hourly rate of pay.  

Governor Approval  

I, Mr James Sloane, Chair of Governors of Ardingly College, confirm that the information in this 
statement is accurate.  

Signed:  

 

  

 

Mr J Sloane  
Chair of Governors  

Date 29th March 2018 

  

