 
Erith School: Gender Pay Report 
Erith School is a large mixed secondary school and is firmly committed to gender equality in all 
areas. 
As an employer with more than 250 employees, the school is required by law to publish annual 
Gender Pay Gap Reports on the school’s website and on the government’s online reporting portal. 
The law requires a snapshot of data based upon information as at 5th April 2017. The following 
figures have been calculated using the standard methodologies set out in the Equality Act 2010 
(Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. 

•  The mean gender pay gap in hourly pay is 31.8% 
•  The median gender pay gap in hourly pay is 55.6% 
•  Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile: 

o  Lower Quartile:  
 
o  Lower Middle Quartile: 
o  Upper Middle Quartile: 
o  Upper Quartile: 
 

Men 16.7% Women 83.3% 
Men 20.0% Women 80.0% 
Men 38.3% Women 61.7% 
Men 55.0% Women 45.0% 

•  Bonuses: no bonuses were paid to men nor women 

Erith School made a strategic decision not to outsource many of its complex day to day operations. 
As a result the School has a varied and diverse range of employees. The School is committed to 
the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees and has a clear policy of 
paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their gender. 
Teaching staff are paid as per the School’s agreed teaching scales which rewards performance, 
experience and their wider contribution to the School. With regard to support staff, the School will 
continue to review rates of pay to ensure that they are not gender-biased and that the rates of pay 
for  staff  are  compared  regularly  with  other  schools/the  local  area  and  through  a  job  evaluation 
process. All rates of pay are reviewed annually. 
The School is confident that the reported Gender Pay Gap does not result from paying men and 
women differently for the same or equivalent work and is committed to providing a fair working 
environment. 
The figures that appear in the quartile information are representative of the types of jobs that the 
School has, especially in the lower quartile sector where there are more lower paid and part-time 
roles, and historically both in our school and other local schools, it is primarily women that have 
chosen to work in those roles. 
I confirm that the information contained in this Gender Pay Report is accurate. 
Mrs S Allen 
Head Teacher 
 

