Hitachi Capital (UK) PLCGender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC1. The importance of diversity within Hitachi 
Capital (UK) PLC  

With 1230 employees across the UK it’s important that our people feel part of HCUK, that we appreciate and 
value differences, and work hard to create an environment where everyone is able to contribute to the success 
of the company.  

At HCUK our overall April 2017 Mean gender pay 
gap – the difference between the average amount 
that men and women are paid - is 33.5% and the 
median 34.1%. In terms of the bonus gap the 
mean is 59.9% and the median 26.7%.  

This is a long way from where we want it to be 
and we are working on a number of measures 
to reduce this gap and bring about the change 
required to build a more diverse and inclusive 
work environment.  

We’re confident that our gender pay gap is not 
an equal pay issue and our analysis shows that 
our pay gap is driven by the structure of our 
workforce.

Although our workforce overall is relatively equally split across the genders, we have a higher proportion of men 
in more senior roles. Female colleagues are over represented in the lower and lower-middle quartile, with more 
working part time to accommodate their work/life balance.

2. Gender Pay Gap 

Following the 2015 general election, the Government announced its intention to fulfil a manifesto commitment by 
bringing into force a provision of the Equality Act 2010 on gender pay gap reporting. Subsequently The Equality 
Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 came into force on 6 April 2017.

The legislation requires UK companies employing 250 or more employees to publish statutory calculations every 
year which identify the pay gap between their male and female employees. 

Example 1

Average hourly male pay
(4 x £100) + (1 x £50) = £450 / 5 = £90

Average hourly female pay
(1 x £100) + (4 x £50) = £300 / 5 = £60

Role A £100

(4 x £100)

Role B £50

(1 x £50) 

Average £90
£450 / 5 = £90

Role A £100

(1 x £100)

Role B £50

(4 x £50) 

Average £60
£300 / 5 = £60

Gender pay gap  
(Expressed as a percentage of male pay)
((£90 - £60) + £90) x 100 = 33.3%

Equal pay

All roles paid equally

Gender pay gap
33.3%

1

©Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 2018. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLCExample 2

Average hourly male pay
(1 x £100) + (1 x £50) = £150 / 2 = £75

Average hourly female pay
(1 x £100) + (4 x £50) = £100 / 5 = £60

Role A £100

(1 x £100)

Role B £50

(1 x £50) 

Average £75
£150 / 2 = £75

Role A £100

(1 x £100)

Role B £50

(4 x £50) 

Average £60
£300 / 5 = £60

Gender pay gap  
(Expressed as a percentage of male pay)
((£75 - £60) + £75) x 100 = 20%

Equal pay

All roles paid equally

Gender pay gap

20%

In line with legislative requirements, there are six calculations which must be reported; three based on pay and 
three based on bonus calculated using the snapshot date of 5 April.  It is important to emphasise that gender 
pay reporting differs from equal pay reporting. Equal pay relates to paying males and females fairly for work that is 
similar or of equal value. Gender pay reflects the underlying workforce demographics within an organisation.

Even when men and women are paid equally for the same or similar roles, you can still see a gender pay gap, as 
the examples below show.

In Example 1 there are a greater proportion of men in role A earning £100 per hour, and there are a greater 
proportion of women in role B, which has a lower hourly rate. This leads to a gender pay gap of 33.3%

In Example 2 there are an equal number of men and women in role A earning £100 an hour, but there are still 
more women in role B earning £50 an hour. This leads to a gender pay gap of 20%.

3. HCUK’s gender pay gap data

The data for our report was collected as at 5 April 2017. At this 
date our workforce consisted of 579 women and 509 men in 
permanent roles.

HCUK has a mean gender pay gap in hourly pay of 33.5%. This 
is calculated by adding up the total amount paid to women and 
dividing it by the total number of women. We then do the same for 
men, and compare the difference.

HCUK has a median gender pay gap in hourly pay of 34.1%. 
This is calculated by listing the pay of all women in numerical 
order, the median is the middle figure. We then do the same for 
men, and compare the difference.

Gender pay gap 
Difference between men and women 
across the group

33.5%

34.1%

Mean Pay Gap

Median Pay Gap

These gaps are broadly in line with the Financial Services Industry, which historically has seen a higher 
proportion of men in Senior roles, but we would like to be an industry-leader in this area – rather than keeping 
up with the pack. Our immediate aim is to achieve a more equal gender split in senior positions, and we have 
made progress towards this over the last 24 months. In April 2016 we appointed a female Board Member 
and in January 2018 we appointed an additional female employee on our Executive Committee. We are 
committed to working towards addressing our gender pay gap and will take appropriate actions in the coming 
years to proactively reduce this gap.

2

©Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 2018. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLCGender bonus gap 
Difference between men and women 
across the group

59.9%

26.7%

Females receiving a bonus

Males receiving a bonus

Mean Bonus Gap Median Bonus Gap

Further analysis was completed which compared the number of men and women at each level of HCUK’s job 
grading structure. This confirmed that there is a higher percentage of males in senior job grades and a higher 
percentage of females in junior roles where part time working is more common, which directly impacts the 
gender pay results. 

HCUK’s workforce overall is relatively equally split between males and females, however reflecting similar organisa-
tions within the Financial Services sector, males significantly dominate the top pay quartile, while females are in the 
majority in the lower and lower-middle quartile.

The predominance of men in senior positions and part time females also impacts our comparison figures for bonus 
payments. The calculations indicate a difference in mean bonus payments of 59.9% and a difference in median 
bonus payments of 26.7%

The proportion of females that received a bonus is 89.4%, and the proportion of males that received a  
bonus is 86.5%.  

The bonus figures do not include those who started with the company after 1 April 2016, as their first bonus 
was paid in May 2017, after the reporting period used in these statistics. This explains why less than 100% of 
employees of either gender received a bonus.

4. Responding to the challenge

Equality in the workplace continues to be a topic that, quite rightly, draws a lot of attention. Nowhere is this felt 
more acutely than in the financial services sector, where the ratio of men and women employed, as well as their 
salaries, continues to be an important topic of debate.

Celebrating successful and inspirational women in our industry is an incredibly important driver to achieving gender 
parity. This, of course, just scratches the surface of a much broader issue, but by highlighting the achievements 
of leading female figures we can encourage other women to consider starting or furthering their career in financial 
services as a whole.  

3

©Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 2018. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLCAs a leading business in the financial services sector, we at HCUK are aware of the role we need to play, to not 
only encourage more women into the sector, but to also keep them. 

The Hitachi Capital Group has been working actively to promote diversity. To develop businesses on a global scale 
and create new forms of innovation, it is important to establish an environment in which a diverse range of people 
— regardless of their gender, nationality, age, job history, or disability, can exercise their capabilities to the fullest.

We recognise that gender diversity is a crucial component in successful organisations, not just within our 
own business, but we view this as a holistic approach, i.e. through customers, the market and professional 
bodies where we have representation. We acknowledge the value that women bring to the workforce and have 
implemented key initiatives to enhance gender diversity, seeking to boost female representation in leadership 
positions:  

Mentoring Circles Programme 
This program was introduced in September 2016 and 
was aimed at mid-management female employees. The 
six-month programme consisted of monthly mentoring 
sessions, in which groups of mentees are mentored by 
more experienced colleagues.

The aim was to create an open environment where 
people can freely discuss issues relating to their 
professional development and obtain advice and 
feedback from their mentors and their peers. Each 
session focused on a specific topic, such as leadership 
styles, effective networking, selling personal capabilities 
and maintaining work-life balance. 

Mentors facilitated the sessions, sharing the benefit of 
their own experience and providing insight on dealing with challenges as well as realising goals.  The programme 
had a high success rate and we now have over 10% of our workforce actively engaged. Mentors report it to be 
a rewarding process and mentees have stated finding the sessions useful in increasing in their confidence and 
pursuing their goals. 

Given the positive impact, demand across the group and the feedback from the mentees, this programme was 
expanded to all mid-level employees and a subsequent 6 month programme commenced in September 2017

Employee survey
HCUK carries out anonymous employee engagement pulse surveys throughout the year to enable all employees to 
share their honest opinions on working for the company. Employees are encouraged to share their views on a wide 
range of categories including, leadership, recognition and reward, personal growth and their manager.  The survey 
responses, along with data re other professionally recognised employee engagement measures, informs action 
plans that continue to focus on making HCUK a great place to work.

5. Our ongoing commitment

It’s vital to our long-term objectives that we not only recruit and retain female talent, but have the right structure in 
place to help them grow and succeed within the organisation. We have defined what we seek to achieve in the 
area of diversity and inclusion in the medium and long term.  We have agreed strategic interventions to fulfil our 
diversity and inclusion aims, which include: 

Improving recruitment practices 
When recruiting into HCUK we actively encourage our internal recruiters and external agencies to provide a 
diversified shortlist for all senior positions, not only for gender but all areas of diversity.  

4

©Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 2018. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLCThere will be more focus on supporting 
female progression into senior roles. This 
has already commenced through the 
mentoring programme and will also be 
supported by the activities below.

We will continue to run ‘WIN at 
Recruitment’ training (one of our Core 
Management Modules for all people 
managers) where we discuss unconscious 
bias and protected characteristics.  
Managers are encouraged to focus on 
building an inclusive workplace. 

Ensuring policies are competitive, engaging and meet our employee needs 
Diversity and Inclusion related policies and processes, including parental, work-life balance and flexible working are 
being reviewed to ensure they best support the needs of our employee population.

More support for new parents
The choice to have children can sometimes be a factor in slowing down career progression for women. We’re 
working to minimise the impact of this with a new raft of maternity initiatives which will come into effect from 1 April 
2018. These include making sure expectant mums at HCUK are aware of their options around sharing parental 
leave with their partners, a ‘Back to Business’ Mentoring circle for returning female talent, Maternity Champions to 
help returning mums balance work and home life, and additional options for keeping in touch while they’re out of 
the business.

‘Women in Business’ Awards - HCUK to become one of the key 
sponsors of the Awards
As part of our sponsorship, we are planning to run a series of seminars on topics covered at the Mentoring Circles 
Programme and engage with other organisations. The idea is to run these seminars over a period of 6 months 
wherein HCUK Mentors/Mentees will get the opportunity to run /support these seminars. 

Women in Credit - HCUK is sponsoring the ‘Woman of the Year’ award
We are also proud to sponsor the Woman of the Year category, at the Women in Credit Awards 2018, which will 
play a vital role in shining a light on the industry-leading work being done by these individuals. By sponsoring, we 
are voicing our commitment to support all women in this sector – not just those collecting an award.

I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements 
of the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017

Robert Gordon 
Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC  
Chief Executive Officer

5

©Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 2018. All rights reserved.Gender Pay Gap Report 2017Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC