Hutchesons’ Educational Trust
Gender Pay Gap Report April 2017

We are also required to report on the gender balance 
across our workforce. 

The majority of each quartile is made up of female staff. 
The upper quartile is the most balanced in terms of 
gender, with a split of 57% women and 43% men. The 
other three quartiles have women comprising 70% or 
more, of the total staff in that quartile.

HET does not award bonuses to staff and thus no 
reporting is required on bonus gender pay gap.
 
With a median pay gap of 0%, our existing  
commitment to gender equality is clear and that will 
continue as we monitor our gender pay gap and  
continue to focus on equality in the workplace.

I confirm that the data reported is accurate.

Mr Colin Gambles
Rector
March 2018

Pay Quartiles
Gender distribution across four equally sized pay 
quartiles. 

Upper Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

Lower Middle Quartile

Lower Quartile

Gender Pay Reporting
Hutchesons’ Educational Trust  (HET) operates  
Hutchesons’ Grammar School.

Regulations on gender pay gap reporting came into effect 
in 2017, requiring larger employers to publish the outcome 
of calculations showing the gender split of their workforce 
and any gender pay gaps between their male and female 
employees (as a percentage difference). 
 
The following analysis is based on the data as it  
was on the snapshot date of 5 April 2017, showing the 
overall mean and median gender pay gap based on hourly 
rates of pay. At that date, Hutchesons’  
Educational Trust (HET) had 241 relevant employees, of 
which 72 were men and 169 were women. 

Whilst the regulations only apply to employers with at least 
250 employees and our permanent headcount was just  
short of that at the snapshot date, our staff numbers do 
fluctuate with supply staff and we want to be transparent 
by publishing our report.
 
HET, following a set of principles underpinned by  
supporting policies, is devoted to maintaining equality in 
the workplace. We are confident that those individuals 
carrying out the same roles across the school are paid 
equally, regardless of gender. This is borne out in the  
statistics. Our median average gender pay gap (that is pay 
at the midpoint of the organisation) is 0%. This means that 
using the median average calculation men and women get 
paid the same. Using the mean average calculation men get 
paid 9.88% more than women. 

As the gender pay gap analyses the pay of all employees 
across the entire organisation, regardless of role or  
seniority, we consider that our mean pay gap is a result of 
the work-force’s make-up and structure at a senior level in 
particular.
 
HET’s use of incremental pay scales for teaching staff 
helps to ensure that men and women are paid equally for 
doing the same job. Pay is based upon the job role. 

Pay Gap
Difference in hourly rate between men and women.

Median               0.00%
Mean                  9.88%

