 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

Balhousie Care Ltd. 

-2017- 

 

 

 

 

 

Foreword 
 
Care services are now an essential part of every 
community.  At Balhousie Care Ltd, we are proud 
of the high standards of services that we offer in 
communities  throughout  Scotland.    Our  care 
homes  do  not  only  offer  employment 
opportunities,  but  also  services 
for  other 
members of the community to access. 
 
Of course, operating in a number of communities 
across  the  east  of  Scotland  does  mean  that  we 
create  a  number  of  job  opportunities.    We  are 
proud of our diverse workforce and welcome the 
requirement for organisations such as ourselves to 
report on our gender pay gap.   
 
It is common in our sector to have a higher number of female than male employees.  
We are no different and employ both male and female staff at every grade within the 
business with a higher percentage of female staff overall.   
 
In  understanding  our  own  gender  pay  gap  for  this  report,  we  have  been  able  to 
identify  areas  that  require  our  attention.    Through  our  “Together  We’re  Great” 
initiative, we have encouraged opportunities for all, regardless of gender and this is 
reflected in our favourable gender pay gap figures. 
 
Our commitments to reducing our gap further are contained within this report. 
 
I am pleased with the results Balhousie Care Ltd. have produced and declare that 
this is accurate data and information. 
 
 
 
 
Steve White 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
 

 

 

The Gender Pay Gap 
 
The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between average earning of men 
and women in an organisation.  Employers in Great Britain with more than 250 staff 
are now required by law to publish information relating to their gender pay gap.    
 
The calculations employers are required to report on are listed below: 
 
 
 
 

Mean gender pay gap

• The difference between the average hourly rate of male 
full time employees and female full time employees.

Median gender pay gap

•The difference between the mid-point of hourly paid 
male employees and the mid-point of hourly paid female 
employees.

Mean bonus pay gap

•The difference between the average bonus paid to male 
employees and the average bonus paid to female 
employees.

Median bonus pay gap

•The difference between the mid-point of bonus paid to 
male employees and the mid-point of bonus paid to 
female employees.

Quartile bands

•The proportions of male and female employees in lower, 
lower mid, upper mid and upper quartile pay bands.

 

 
 
 
 
We have included our own results within this report using the required calculations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

The organisation employs a significantly higher number of female staff than male staff 
as can be seen on the below chart: 
 

 
 
What our figures show 
Balhousie Care Ltd. have reported a mean gender pay gap of 1.6%, significantly less 
than the UK average of 18%.  Our median gender pay gap is 0.0%. 
 
 

 

 
Mean 
Median 

Pay – hourly rate 

1.6% 
0.0% 

Bonus 
17.0% 
13.7% 

 
 
The  organisation  has  also  reported  a  bonus  mean  gender  pay  gap  of  17.0%  and  a 
median of 13.7%.  The percentage of eligible female employees receiving a bonus was 
higher in the period than eligible male employees as shown at the following table: 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 

80.0%

70.0%

60.0%

50.0%

40.0%

30.0%

20.0%

10.0%

0.0%

Male

Female

 

 
 
Quartiles 
Our pay band quartiles show a similar number of male and female employees in each 
of the quartile pay bands.  This has highlighted that there are an equal number of male 
and female employees paid at levels in each of the quartiles: upper quartile, upper 
mid quartile, lower mid quartile and the lower quartile.   
 
The distribution of employees at each quartile is shown below: 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Our commitment  
 
Balhousie  Care  Ltd.  recognise  the  need  for  the 
gender  pay  gap  reporting  and  welcomes  the 
legislation.    We  operate  a  people  business  –  we 
employ a high number of people to care for others 
which is why our people are so important to us. 
 
Development 
 
We  have  excellent  talent  within  the  organisation 
and we want to continue to develop our own staff.  
It is important to us to allow our staff to grow their 
own skills and excel in their career within the organisation.  We therefore do not limit 
training and development opportunities and these are open to all of our staff to apply 
for.   
 
Recruitment 
 
We also like to welcome newcomers to the organisation as new people bring new 
ideas and complement our already highly skilled team.  We like to recruit from as wide 
a candidate pool as possible and recruit people who have the right behaviours and 
attitudes and not just the qualifications required.  We have pay bandings for each of 
our roles and newcomers are paid whatever rate is appropriate to their role.  That 
said, the organisation does carry out pay reviews each year to ensure our pay rates 
are consistent with the market.   
 
Retention 
 
When we have the right people in our business, we want them to stay with us, for a 
long time.  We are pleased with our retention rates which have continually remained 
below  the  UK  average  for  our  sector.    We  continue  to  review  our  reward  and 
recognition schemes to enhance our retention rates  
 
We  are  a  diverse  organisation  –  equality  is  high  on  our  agenda.    We  commit  to 
continuing to offering the above, but ultimately, we want our people to be happy in 
their work place, grow with us and stay with us for as long as they wish. 
 
Marc MacDonald 
Head of People Services 

 

