Gold Medal Travel Group PLC  
UK Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

Summary

From 2017, we as an organisation are required to publish and report specific figures about our gender pay gap in accordance 
with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Accordingly, this report sets out the required information about our gender pay gap as it stood at 5 April 2017.

Within the UK, the following employing entity is covered within this report: 

l Gold Medal Travel Group PLC (“Gold Medal”)

Gold Medal is part of dnata Travel Holdings UK Ltd and provides comprehensive travel services for individuals, companies and the 
travel trade.  We manage everything from business and incentive travel to worldwide tour operations. 

As an inclusive employer, diversity is a fundamental principle which underpins our operations.  

Gender pay gap information

The gender pay gap information that we are required to publish includes:  
1. mean gender pay gap in hourly pay  
2. median gender pay gap in hourly pay  
3. mean bonus gender pay gap  
4. median bonus gender pay gap  
5. proportion of males and females receiving a bonus payment  
6. proportion of males and females in each pay quartile 

*Calculation methods are in accordance with the governments requirements: https://www.gov.uk/guidance/gender-pay-gap-reporting-make-your-calculations  

Results

1. Mean Gender Pay Gap in Hourly Pay 

Mean male  
hourly rate

£14.96

Mean female  
hourly rate 

£12.24

Difference

£2.73

Mean Gender Pay 
Gap in Hourly Pay

18.22%

Gold Medal

2. Median Gender Pay Gap in Hourly Pay 

Median male  
hourly rate 

£11.81

Median female 
hourly rate 

Difference

Median Gender Pay 
Gap in Hourly Pay

£10.38

£1.43

12.07%

Gold Medal

3. Mean bonus Gender Pay Gap

Mean average  
male bonus 

Mean average 
female bonus

Gold Medal

£727.17

£531.51

Difference

£195.66

Mean bonus  
Gender Pay Gap

26.91%

1

DATE: 15/03/18

4. Median bonus Gender Pay Gap 

Median average 
male bonus

Median average 
female bonus 

Difference

Median bonus 
Gender Pay Gap

Gold Medal

£466.94

£382.50

£84.44

18.08%

5. Proportion of Males and Females Receiving a Bonus Payment during the 12 months preceding 5th April 2017

Male bonus paid

Female bonus paid

Gold Medal

45.63%

42.86%

6. Number of Male and Female employees in each quartile of the pay range as a percentage %  

Males

Female

Description

Band A

Male/Female  
in quartile

Male/Female 
in quartile as %

Band B

Male/Female 
in quartile

Male/Female 
in quartile as %

Band C

Male/Female  
in quartile

Male/Female  
in quartile as %

Band D

Male/Female 
in quartile

Male/Female 
in quartile as %

2

50

40%

31

75

60%

63

32.98%

67.02%

36

46

43.90%

56.10%

Includes all employees whose standard 
hourly rate places them at or below the lower 
quartile

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the lower quartile but 
at or below the median 

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the median but at or 
below the upper quartile 

43

33

Includes all employees whose standard hourly 
rate places them above the upper quartile 

56.58%

43.42%

DATE: 15/03/18

Findings

What are the underlying causes of the gender pay gap at Gold Medal: 

Under UK law, men and women must receive equal pay for: 

l the same or broadly similar work;  
l work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation scheme; or  
l work of equal value. 

We are committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees, regardless of sex, race, 
religion or belief, age, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy/maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment or disability. 
We have a clear policy of paying employees equally for the same or equivalent work, regardless of their sex (or any other 
characteristic set out above). 

As such, we: 

l carry out pay and benefits audits as required; and  
l evaluate job roles and pay grades as necessary to ensure a fair structure. 

We are therefore confident that our gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women differently for the same or 
equivalent work, rather the gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the organisation. 

Across our sector, men are more likely to be in IT-related and senior roles, which attract higher rates of pay. Women are also 
more likely to work flexibly and many of the jobs that are available across the UK recognise the attraction this has to candidates 
and in retaining existing staff. 

This pattern from the UK economy is reflected in the make-up of our workforce, where most senior management roles are held 
by men. We have a good representation of women across the brands which can be seen above in the table depicting pay 
quartiles by gender. This shows that our workforce divided into four groups based on hourly pay rates, with:

l Band A including the lowest-paid percentage of employees (the lower quartile) and  
l Band D covering the highest-paid percentage of employees (the upper quartile). 

For there to be no gender pay gap, there would need to be an equal ratio of men to women in each Band. 

Comparisons 

How does our gender pay gap compare with that of other organisations?

The mean gender pay gap for the whole economy (according to the 2016 Office for National Statistics (ONS) Annual Survey 
of Hours and Earnings (ASHE) figures) is 17%, while in the Travel agency, tour operator and other reservation service and 
related activities industry it is 24%. 

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

2017 Gold Medal 

 

18.22%

12.07%

2016 ONS 

Travel agency, tour operator and other 
reservation service and related activities

24%

24.1%

*source= Sic07 Industry (4) SIC2007 Table 16.12 Gender pay gap 2016: https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/
datasets/annualsurveyofhoursandearningsashegenderpaygaptables 

3

DATE: 15/03/18

	

Median	gender	
pay	gap	

12.07%	

24.1%	

	
*source=	Sic07	Industry	(4)	SIC2007	Table	16.12	Gender	pay	gap	2016:	
https://www.ons.gov.uk/employmentandlabourmarket/peopleinwork/earningsandworkinghours/datasets/annualsurveyofhoursandearni
ngsashegenderpaygaptables		
What are we doing moving forward?
	
WHAT	ARE	WE	DOING	MOVING	FORWARD?	
	
At Gold Medal we recognise that having a balanced and diverse workforce is something we are proud to have but 
At	Gold	Medal	we	recognise	that	having	a	balanced	and	diverse	workforce	is	something	we	are	proud	
this can be a complex journey and is not one single process or project.
to	have	but	this	can	be	a	complex	journey	and	is	not	one	single	process	or	project.	
	
We will continue to regularly undertake reviews of pay, bonus and commission policies as well as undertaking training 
We	will	continue	to	regularly	undertake	reviews	of	pay,	bonus	and	commission	policies	as	well	as	
for managers on recruitment and ensure that our advertising and attraction methods are not biased towards any gender.
undertaking	 training	 for	 managers	 on	 recruitment	 and	 ensure	 that	 our	 advertising	 and	 attraction	
methods	are	not	biased	towards	any	gender.	
We are committed to doing everything that we can to reduce the gap. However, we also recognise that our scope to 
	
act is limited with individual’s career and life choices.
We	are	committed	to	doing	everything	that	we	can	to	reduce	the	gap.	However,	we	also	recognise	
that	our	scope	to	act	is	limited	with	individual’s	career	and	life	choices.	
A new Head of People and Culture role at Group level has been created and will help ensure that People and Culture 
	
A	new	Head	of	People	and	Culture	role	at	Group	level	has	been	created	and	will	help	ensure	that	
remain at the forefront of employees, managers and Directors agenda. 
People	and	Culture	remain	at	the	forefront	of	employees,	managers	and	Directors	agenda.		
	
We recognise that it may take several years before we see an impact on the gap within our business but we are 
We	recognise	that	it	may	take	several	years	before	we	see	an	impact	on	the	gap	within	our	business	
committed to working towards this both in our business and the wider industry.
but	we	are	committed	to	working	towards	this	both	in	our	business	and	the	wider	industry.	
	
I, Lisa McAuley, Managing Director, confirm that the information in this statement is accurate.
I,	Lisa	McCauley,	Managing	Director,	confirm	that	the	information	in	this	statement	is	accurate.	
	
Signed
Signed	
	

	
Date:	15/03/17	

	

4

DATE: 15/03/18

