 

 

Autodesk Ltd: Gender Pay Gap Report 

1)  What is the Gender Pay Gap report? 

 

The Government recently published regulations for Gender Pay Gap Reporting for UK 
companies with more than 250 employees to publish their Gender Pay statistics. The 
method  for  calculating  this  information  has  been  outlined  in  the  government 
regulations and the data must be published both on the gov.uk website and our own 
Autodesk site.  

 

The  Gender  Pay  Gap  report  takes  into  account  all  job  types  and  grade  levels  across 
Autodesk UK Ltd. 

 

The report requires pay data paid to all active UK Autodesk employees including basic 
pay, allowances, shift premium pay, AIP, commissions, recognition payments, the value 
of  equity  awards  (at  vesting),  recruitment  or  retention  payments  and  pay  for  certain 
leaves of absence. It does not include other pay elements such as overtime payments, 
redundancy, pay in lieu of annual leave or any payment that is not in money i.e. benefit 
in kind payments.  

 

It is important to state that the gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay for men 
and women doing the same job. Autodesk reviews employee pay levels when looking at 
base salaries, annual bonus awards and equity grants and we believe we have a fair and 
consistent process.  

Employers must give men and women equal treatment in the terms and conditions of 
their employment contract if they are employed to do: 

•  'like work' - work that is the same or broadly similar 

•  work rated as equivalent under a job evaluation study  

•  work found to be of equal value in terms of effort, skill or decision making. 

 

2)  The Report 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3)  Explanation of Results 

At this stage 85% of eligible organizations are yet to report their data, and we will be 
paying close attention to external benchmarks as the data becomes available. We will 
continue to focus on addressing our gap through our ongoing initiatives (see below) 
and participate in the collective effort to increase the female representation in this field. 

Our gender pay gap is primarily driven by the types of roles that women have in our 
organization: 
 

•  There are a higher proportion of women in lower grade roles  
•  There are a higher proportion of men in engineering and sales roles 

 

It is important to note that our Gender Pay Gap is not driven by paying men and women 
differently for the same roles. 

 

4)  Current Initiatives & Action Plan 

 

Our goals with respect to diversity & inclusion in Autodesk are to: 

 

Hire a Diverse Workforce 

We have and will continue to introduce policies to ensure that we interview a diverse 
set of candidates for open positions; as an example, in our European sales team we have 
implemented  a  policy  to  ensure  that  candidates  from  less  represented  groups  are 
included  in  the  interview  process  for  any  open  position.  We  have  already  seen  an 
increase in the number of women filling these roles, and we are expanding the policy to 
other parts of the organization. In addition, we have moved toward interview practices 
that  emphasize  demonstrated  skills  sets  versus  stylistic  preferences,  to  ensure  the 
hiring of a more diverse workforce. 

In many different parts of world, we actively support and engage with programs to grow 
the diversity of people in the STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) 
pipeline at the primary, secondary, and university levels.  This is done through financial 
sponsorships,  software  grants  and  training,  and  volunteer  participation  in  different 
non-profits supporting this work. 

In the UK we are proud to be a member of the WISE (Women in Science and Engineering) 
program. WISE is a UK based non-profit whose intention is to enable people in business, 

 

 

industry  and  education  to  increase  the  participation,  contribution  and  success  of 
women in STEM. 

Creating an Inclusive Culture 

We  use  our  engagement  survey  and  other  data  to  identify  any  differences  in  the 
experiences that different groups have within the company and develop strategic plans 
to address them.  In addition,  we have a number of global groups, such as Autodesk 
Women in Leadership, that support personal and professional development of different 
minority groups. 

 

Building a Diverse Leadership  

Autodesk  has integrated diversity into its leadership development programs, ensuring 
that  there  is  diverse  representation  of  women  and  other  groups.    At  the  more  junior 
levels of the organization, Autodesk has also launched an Emerging Leaders program to 
develop women and people globally from less represented groups, creating a source for 
the more senior development roles .  In addition, we offer mentoring and development 
programs focused specifically on women to address unique needs they may have in the 
workplace. 

 

Promote and Support Flexible Working 

We  recognize  the  value  of  providing  flexibility  to  support  our  employees  and  enable 
them to maintain a healthy work/life balance.  

 

We are committed to closing our gender pay gap, which we will continue to monitor and 
address  through  our  comprehensive  initiatives  and  programs.  Autodesk  values  and 
prioritizes diversity and inclusion and will continue to ensure that this remains deeply 
engrained in our company culture and values. 

 

Signed by 

 

Ian Mitchell  

Vice President, Talent Management 

 

