 Home  First time buyer Buying a home Remortgage your home Buy to Let Sign in Menu   ☰   Menu Mortgage Guides Useful guides to help you understand the mortgage process. How to get a mortgage The cost of buying a house How do I remortgage my home? How do buy to let mortgages work? Mortgage types explained New build mortgages Help to Buy More guides Calculators Practical gadgets to make the mortgage process easy. How much can I borrow? How much will it cost? How much stamp duty will I pay? How much can I borrow on a Buy-to-Let mortgage? How much is my house worth? More calculators Life Insurance Protection for you and your family should the worst happen. Home Insurance Tailored insurance cover for your home and contents. Conveyancing Expert legal help whether you are buying or remortgaging. Mortgage Best Buys Use our search to find the pick of the best mortgage deals. Online Mortgage Finder Use our Mortgage Finder to see which deals you qualify for and see how much you could borrow. About Us Awards Reviews Careers Contact Us News & Insight Gender Pay Gap Report 2017 At L&C, we’re fully committed to building a more diverse and inclusive culture. By developing our polices across recruitment, retention, promotion and training, we’re actively working towards reducing our gender pay gap in the coming years. Background London & Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C;) currently employs over 800 people at our three main offices in Bath, London and Newcastle. We’re publishing our gender pay gap report in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations. An important thing to point out is that the gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay. Equal pay is the requirement that all men and women who carry out the same or similar jobs are paid the same. We are confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equal jobs across the organisation. Our gender pay gap The table below shows our mean and median pay and bonus gap on 5th April 2017. Difference between men and women Mean Median Pay gap 25.2% 23.6% Bonus gap 62.5% 77.9% This gap is higher than the national median gender pay gap of 18.4% 1 . The underlying reason for this is that we, like most of our industry, have a higher proportion of men working within our business at all levels of pay – and in particular in higher paid senior, technical and sales roles. In contrast, most of our part time female employees work in administration. 1. Source: House of Commons Briefing Paper 7068 This trend is highlighted in the following charts, which show the proportion of men is significantly higher in the top three pay quartiles. The proportion of men and women in each pay quartile The proportion of men and women receiving a bonus payment The chart above shows that 6% fewer women than men received a bonus in 2016/17. The bonus gap shows an even bigger difference between men and women. The bonus gap is largely because bonuses form a big part of the salary package for sales roles, which are mostly held by men. Closing the gap We want to make sure everyone has an equal chance to fulfil their potential at L&C; – whatever their gender. So we’re fully committed to building a more diverse and inclusive culture. To do this, we’ll be focusing on the following key areas: Revising our recruitment policies and procedures to attract more women to the organisation, particularly in sales and senior management roles. Reviewing our flexible working policy to help our employees to manage their work/life balance and meet their family commitments, whilst meeting the needs of our customers Enhancing our training programmes to support our employees to develop their skills and progress within L&C.; By developing our polices across recruitment, retention, promotion and training, we’re actively working towards reducing our gender pay gap in the coming years Phillip Cartwright, Managing Director Note: We confirm that our data is accurate and has been calculated according to the requirements of The Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017. First time buyer Buying a home Remortgage your home Buy to Let Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. We're here to offer our customers excellent fee free mortgage advice. Our expert advisers will help you secure the best mortgage deal whether you're a first time buyer, remortgaging your home, buying to let or moving up the property ladder. We'll help you throughout the mortgage process – no hidden costs or surprises, just straightforward, honest, mortgage advice. Representative example A mortgage of £194,837 payable over 22 years, initially on a fixed rate until 30/06/23 at 2.19% and then on a variable rate of 4.49% for the remaining 17 years would require 62 payments of £930.05 and 202 payments of £1,108.55. The total amount payable would be £282,722 made up of the loan amount plus interest (£86,753) and fees (£1,132). The overall cost for comparison is 3.6% APRC representative    F       G       T       E   London & Country Mortgages Ltd, Beazer House, Lower Bristol Road, Bath, BA2 3BA is a company limited by shares. Our Companies House number is 1988608. We are also authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Our FCA number is 143002. The FCA does not regulate most Buy to Let mortgages. © 2018 London & Country. All rights reserved. Sitemap | Privacy Statement Our dedication to providing our customers with a first class mortgage service has helped us win over 150 awards since 2002, more than any other mortgage broker . In fact we’ve won the most prestigious awards in our industry on numerous occasions. You can see them all in our awards gallery . We’re proud to support Winston’s Wish, the UK's leading childhood bereavement charity. Every year Winston’s Wish need to raise over £2.4million to provide practical help and support to children suffering the loss of a parent or sibling. For more information visit the Winston's Wish website and Twitter Sign in Close First time buyer The basics Guides Best buys Calculators Buying a home The basics Guides Best buys Calculators Remortgage your home The basics Guides Best buys Calculators Buy to Let The basics Guides Best buys Calculators Mortgage Best Buys Online Mortgage Finder All Mortgage Guides All Mortgage Calculators About Us Contact Us News & Insight Other services Life Insurance Home Insurance Conveyancing × Call our expert advisers now call free from mobile or landline 0808 292 0724  Your name  Your email address  Your phone number  This is the number we will call We'll get in touch with you as soon as possible about your enquiry. How would you like us to stay in touch?  Email   Telephone   SMS   Post   Social Messaging  Let us do the hard work for you. We'll keep an eye on the latest mortgage rates, offers and related services so you're always up to speed. Don't worry, you can change your preferences or unsubscribe at any time - and we won't share your details with anyone else for marketing purposes. Read our privacy policy here . Call me ASAP or Choose a time to call Select a preferred contact time Select your preferred time  Today   Other Select your preferred time  Anytime 9am - 12pm 12pm - 1pm 1pm - 2pm 2pm - 5pm 5pm - 6pm 6pm - 8pm We will attempt to call you within this timeslot Date  Alternative phone number (optional)  You can give us a different number to call at the scheduled time Arrange a callback