UK GENDER PAY REPORT 2017

Landis+Gyr is the leading global provider of integrated energy management solutions for the utility sector. Offering 
one of the broadest portfolios of products and services to address complex industry challenges, the company delivers 
comprehensive solutions for the foundation of a smarter grid, including smart metering, distribution network sensing 
and automation tools, load control, analytics and energy storage. From sales representatives to software engineers 
and assembly workers, our diverse staff is united by the common goal of helping our customers manage their energy as 
efficiently as possible. As part of our commitment to a common culture of diversity, openness, collaboration and quality 
without compromise, we welcome the UK Government’s requirement to be more transparent in our pay structure. The data 
in this report show our wage structure for the month of April 2017, as specified by UK regulations.

Measuring and understanding the pay gap

Total relevant pay employees UK

Landis+Gyr UK’s gender pay gap is strongly influenced by the 
gender disparity in the staffing of different areas of the business.  
For example, office-based roles are predominantly filled by men, 
whereas 54 % of production operatives are female: a job position 
that has its own pay banding. 

In addition to this, the majority of the Senior Management team 
is male. This significantly influences the average male pay, and 
explains why the bonus gap is larger than the total pay gap, as 
bonuses are much higher at management level.

256 

Female

Total relevant  

employees  

947

691 
Male

Mean gender pay gap

Median gender pay gap

Mean bonus gender pay gap Median bonus gender pay gap

25 %

18 %

46 %

42 %

The mean gender pay gap is 
the difference between mean 
male pay and mean female pay.

The median gap is the 
difference between the 
employee in the middle of the 
range of male wages and the 
middle employee in the range 
of female wages.

The figure considers the mean 
bonus pay of all male and 
female relevant employees 
who were paid bonus pay 
during the taken period.

The median bonus pay of 
all male and female relevant 
employees who were paid 
bonus pay during the taken 
period.

1

Production

Proportions of males and females receiving a bonus

100 %

40 %

38 %

Production forms almost half of our headcount. All female 
production employees’ basic salaries and variable pay rates are 
100 % of their male counterparts.

The proportion of males and females who are eligible for a bonus 
is fairly equal.

Proportions of males and females in each quartile pay band

87 %

74 %

71 %

62 %

Upper

Upper middle

Lower middle

Lower

13 %

26 %

29 %

38 %

For this figure all male and female employees are ordered from 
lowest to highest pay. The list is divided into four sections with an 
equal number of employees in each section. This figure shows the 
proportion of male and female employees in each quartile band.

What we are doing to close the gap

Our goal is to continually improve the representative demographic 
of our workforce, both as part of our commitment to fairness, and 
to ensure a varied, diverse and vibrant team.  Part of our success 
can be measured in the steady reduction of the gender pay gap.  
Over the next five years, we will continue to progress a range of 
initiatives to attract, engage, develop and retain female talent, as 
well as other groups underrepresented in our organisation.  Here 
are some examples: 

Attracting – We are working on improving the diversity of our talent 
pipeline by actively introducing guidelines to increase the number 
of female applications as we have fewer women in highly paid 
roles. We ensure all adverts are gender neutral.  We will continue 
to build on our engagement with the national STEM organisation to 
further create opportunities for females within our organisation and 
will continue to engage with local schools and colleges to promote 
STEM as a future career with us.  

Retention – We are committed to creating a flexible working 
environment and will be engaging with the workforce on ways in 
which this can be further improved.  We offer a comprehensive 
range of flexible employee benefits in the UK.  Employee 
engagement surveys have been carried out to help us understand 
and improve employee satisfaction with such initiatives.   

In addition, we conduct detailed exit interviews and analyse the 
data for trends that will help us to improve talent retention. Two 
global talent programmes go live in 2018 and both have been 
designed with a gender balanced participant mix in mind. 

Development and progression – In 2018, we launch a Global 
employee database and Learning Management System which 
will dramatically improve access to learning and development 
opportunities for all employees.  These system improvements 
will also allow us to collect and analyse information about our 
employee’s career aspirations which will proactively influence the 
design of future talent initiatives.  We conduct an annual review 
of high-potential talent across the organisation and the diversity 
of succession plans is discussed.

We confirm the information and data reported is accurate as of 
the snapshot date April 5, 2017.

Stephen Cunningham 
SVP Infrastructure Programs

Samantha Price 
Head of HR UK 

2

