 

 

 

2017 CEUK GENDER PAY GAP REPORT 

Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees to publish statutory 
calculations  every  year  showing  how  large  the  pay  gap  is  between  their  male  and  female 
employees.  This involves carrying out six calculations that show the difference between the average 
earnings of men and women in our organisation. 

We can use these results to assess: 

the balance of male and female employees at different levels 

 
  how effectively talent is being maximised and rewarded across the organisation as a whole 
 

CEUK’s Gender Pay & Bonus Gap 

Difference between Men and Women 

 

 

Mean 
27% 
50% 

Median 

28% 
0% 

 

 

Pay Gap 

Bonus Gap 

The table above shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap based on rates of pay as at the 
snapshot date (i.e. 5 April 2017). It also captures the mean and median difference between bonuses 
paid to men and women at CEUK in the year up to 5th April 2017. 
 
Gender pay reporting is different to equal pay and we are confident that CEUK’s gender pay gap is not 
a pay issue as our approach to recruitment and pay is gender neutral. Our study shows that our pay gap 
is driven by the direct make up of our workforce in that CEUK staff is made up of 71% men and 29% 
women.    The pay gap  exists because  traditionally, heavy manufacturing and engineering have been 
historically male dominated professions.  This coupled with our employees long service (30 years plus) 
has  resulted  in  the  gender  split  onsite  remaining  static.  Therefore,  as  a  result  of  the  gender  split 
remaining static we have a significantly higher number of males in our total headcount many of which 
are at a senior level.  

The structure of our  workforce is also  influencing  our mean  bonus gap.  Our  CEUK  bonus scheme is 
gender neutral but the makeup of our workforce effects our mean bonus gap, in the same way it does 
our gender pay gap. 97% of the workforce are paid a fixed bonus amount, whereas 3% of our workforce 
are paid bonuses via another  scheme, which is performance related and in which the recipients are 
88% male and 12% female. 
 

 

 

 

 

Percentage of Staff Awarded a Bonus 

 

 

This  shows a 1 % difference between  the number  of men and women being  paid  a bonus for their 
performance in 2016.  

Proportion of Males & Females in Each Pay Quartile 

 

 

 

Lower

52%
Male

48% 
Female

Lower Middle

30% 
Female

70%
Male

Upper Middle 

18% 
Female

Upper

15% 
Female

82% 
Male

85% 
Male

 

 

The  above  information shows  the gender  distribution across 4  equally sized  quartiles of  CEUK  from 
lowest to highest paid. The data shows that CEUK has more males in senior higher paying roles, than 
females. 
 

 

 

What We Are Going To Do 

 

CEUK are always striving to attract the finest talent from both genders, therefore going forward our 
intention is to implement the following strategies: 

  A  key  initiative  going  forward  is  that  our  recruiting  managers  undertake  unconscious  bias 
training.  By  training  our  managers,  we  can  ensure  that  we  address  any  stereotypes,  both 
negative and positive that exist in the subconscious and may be adversely affecting behaviour 
during the recruitment process. 
 

  Actively  support  existing  CEUK  female  employees  to  succeed  and  grow  into  more  senior 

positions. 

 

  Promote  our  existing  family  friendly  policies  like  flexible  working,  shared  parental  leave, 

maternity and paternity,   all of which are enhanced, more vigorously. 
 

  Motivate our recruitment associates to compile a shortlist of candidates that is both balanced 

and diverse. 

 
 
I can confirm the data reported is accurate 
 
 

 

 
 
Stuart Cameron 
Managing Director  
 

