Gender Pay Gap

Report 2017

Gender Pay Gap Report, 2017

Sophos is committed to building an inclusive culture, where everyone feels they can 
do the best work of their careers, irrespective of age, race, sexual orientation, religion, 
national origin, or gender. We are passionate about creating a workplace of equal 
opportunity, and we pride ourselves on recognising and rewarding our team members 
based on the merits of their performance while embodying the Sophos values of 
simplicity, empowerment, passion, innovation, and authenticity.

In the UK, the government has introduced new legislation that requires all companies 
with 250 or more employees to publish their gender pay gap. This examines the 
difference between the average hourly pay for men and women for our UK employees 
only. It should not be confused with “equal pay”, which is the legal right for men and 
women to be paid the same rate for performing the same work. We welcome this 
opportunity to reflect and test how we deliver on our internal commitment to inclusion 
and equality.

Although our results are ahead of our industry peers, they are not yet as good as 
we would like. We recognise that a diverse business brings a greater depth of ideas, 
innovation, and success. We are committed to continue our work to put equality at our 
core, introduce improvements to our people programmes, and strengthen our efforts 
in improving diversity at Sophos.

Clarissa Peterson  
SVP & Chief Human Resources Officer

2

Gender Pay Gap Report, 2017

What is Being Measured?

Please note that neither of these is 
designed to directly measure or assess 
the concept of “equal pay”. Equal pay 
involves a different question – does the 
company pay male and female employees 
the same amount for the same role, 
factoring in grade level, performance, 
geography, etc. The UK does not require 
public disclosure of equal pay statistics. 
Our pay programmes are focused on 
ensuring that we reward talent and 
performance equally regardless of gender 
or any other personal characteristics. 

The gender pay gap is the measure 
of the difference between men’s and 
women’s hourly earnings in a company. 
This includes base pay, allowances, 
and any other bonus and incentive pay 
paid in April 2017. The formula for this is 
simple: take all such compensation for 
male employees at the company, add it 
up, calculate the median and the mean, 
and then do the same for all female 
employees, and then compare them. 
The gender bonus gap is the difference 
in all incentive pay received by men and 
women in the 12 months up to April 
2017. This includes all bonuses, long-
term incentives, and sales commission 
payments. This is a similar formula, but 
applied to incentive pay and calculated for 
the last 12 months rather than just for one 
month, as the gender pay gap is.

At Sophos, we believe that both gender pay gap/bonus gap and equal pay are important metrics to track.

3

Gender Pay Gap Report, 2017

Our Gender Pay Gap

As the chart below shows, our median gender pay gap of 23.4% is higher than the UK 
average overall which is 18.4%1. However, we are ahead of our industry peers: the gender 
pay gap for companies operating in the UK high-tech sector has a median pay gap of 25%2.

Gender Pay Gap Results
 

Pay gap 

Bonus gap 

MEAN 

MEDIAN
21.1%  23.4%
53.6%  25.4%

Bonus  
participation  
rate3

Quartiles

The Quartiles analysis ranks men and women from the lowest to highest earners. This is 
then divided into four even groups to show the proportions of men and women in each of 
these four earnings groups. 

The table shows that at all levels we have more men than women. Compared to the UK 
High Tech sector4 we have a better representation of women at all levels, but this is clearly 
an area for improvement.

1. Median, ONS 2017

2. UK Gender Pay Gap in High Tech, 2016, Mercer: Comptryx

3.  All employees participate in a bonus plan. The 84% 

participation rate reflects new hires that were not employed 
for the bonus accrual period, but were employed on the 
bonus payment date, which fell within the relevant period.

4.  Based on statistics published by comparable companies 

compiled and provided independently by Mercer as at  
15 March 2018

Band A 
(lowest 25% of earners)

Band B 
(26% - 50%)

Band C 
(51% - 75%)

Band D 
(highest 75% of earners)

4

Gender Pay Gap Report, 2017

What Do the Results Mean? 

We believe our gender pay gap is due to lower female representation at the higher 
levels of our organisation and the high percentage of men in specialist positions 
carrying a higher market premium. We believe the workforce profile explains a large 
proportion of the gender pay gap at Sophos.

What Are We Doing to Encourage Diversity  
at Sophos and in the Technology Sector? 

Our goal is to continue to enhance 
the gender diversity of the Sophos 
workforce and also to ensure equitable 
pay for all genders from the time of hire 
through the employee life cycle. The 
following is a representative sample of 
the programmes we have introduced 
at Sophos to increase the number of 
women in our workforce:

Sophos Women in Technology 

The Sophos Women in Technology 
(SWiT) forum was launched in autumn 

2017. There are groups running in the 
UK and Canada, with the U.S. due to 
commence shortly, then India in June 
2018. The purpose of this initiative is  
to make Sophos a great place to work 
for women in the technology industry  
– spanning across technical and  
non-technical roles. The focus of 
the group is to help women develop 
the skills they need, and develop a 
supportive environment to progress 
in the business and to enhance their 
careers at Sophos.

5

Gender Pay Gap Report, 2017

Tech She Can
Sophos was one of the founding 
organisations of the PWC Tech She Can 
initiative. The Tech She Can Charter is a 
commitment by organisations to work 
together to increase the number of women 
working in technology roles in the UK. It aims 
to tackle the root cause of the problem at 
a societal level by inspiring and educating 
young girls and women to explore and 
pursue tech careers and sharing best 
practices across the organisations involved. 
Women from Sophos will visit schools under 
the Tech She Can banner to help inform 
children about careers in technology and 
to be “ambassadors” for women in tech, for 
Sophos, and for cybersecurity in particular. 
This will enable us to build connections with 
local schools and inspire girls to consider 
tech careers.

Women of Silicon Roundabout
We have been an active supporter in the 
UK of the Women of Silicon Roundabout 
initiative, which enables people and 
organisations to connect, learn, and take 

action on gender diversity and inclusion. As 
part of this effort, Sophos plans to promote 
technology careers within Sophos and raise 
the profile of women in our business.

Avenues Into Tech
We are introducing a new apprenticeship 
scheme this year which will provide another 
route for women to pursue technical 
careers at Sophos. Historically, we have 
tended to focus on graduate level hires, with 
universities as our main contact; diversifying 
this entry pool will help ensure a stronger 
women talent pipeline for future years. We 
have enhanced and expanded our ability to 
host work experience placements for school-
aged children. This enables us to provide 
practical insights into technical careers that 
are available to women, and we hope this 
will result in a greater percentage of women 
pursuing roles of this nature or further 
education in STEM subjects.

changing and evolving, and we want to 
support our employees’ personal lives as well 
as their working lives. We encourage all our 
employees to consider how they can work 
most productively, and collaborate with their 
teams and managers to find the optimal way 
to work, given their particular circumstances 
and geography.

Unconscious Bias
We are all prone to unconscious bias, and it  
is imperative that we are aware of these 
internal biases in order for us to address them.  
We commit to building upon the 
unconscious bias training we currently 
deliver to managers and expanding this for 
all employees. 

As CFO and Director of Sophos Limited, I, 
Nick Bray, can confirm that the information 
contained herein is accurate.

Flexible Working
We encourage flexible working. We know that 
requirements for every job are constantly 

Nick Bray 
CFO and Director of Sophos 
Limited

6

