 

Gender pay gap report April 2017 

 

The gender pay gap is not the same as equal pay. Equal pay ensures that men and women receive the same pay for 
carrying out the same tasks, or equivalent work. The gender pay gap is a simple average figure for all employees 
within the Glenair UK workforce, irrespective of the job they do. 

In line with reporting guidelines, the data reflects payments made in April 2017. The figures include the hourly rate 
for each relevant employee as defined by the legislation. This includes base salary and other allowances, as well as 
both individual and company performance based bonuses received over the previous 12 months. 

The statistics required by legislation tell only a basic story. Glenair UK Ltd’s gender pay gap stems from factors that 
are common with other businesses that have an engineering and manufacturing bias. Historically, these type of 
companies have a significantly higher proportion of male employees. Couple that with the fact that Glenair has a 
track record of providing long and stable careers, which is a positive aspect of corporate life, but has led to senior 
management comprising of more men than women. 

 

 

Women's hourly rate is 
31.4% 
LOWER 
(median) 

36.0% 
LOWER 
(mean) 

 
 
 
 

Women's bonus pay is  
56.5% 
LOWER 
(mean) 

29.9% 
LOWER 
(median) 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Pay quartiles (How many men and women are in each quarter of the employer's payroll). 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

Upper quartile 

90.2% 
MEN 

9.8% 
WOMEN 

 
 

Lower middle quartile 
65.9% 
WOMEN 

34.1% 
MEN 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Upper middle quartile 
34.4% 
65.6% 
MEN 
WOMEN 

 
 

 
 

Lower quartile 

30.1% 
MEN 

69.9% 
WOMEN 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

Who received bonus pay 
92.8% 
OF MEN 

OF WOMEN 

86.1% 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Encouraging young women to see science, technology, engineering and mathematics (the so-called STEM subjects) 
as a future career path has been recognized as a critical requirement for the UK government to address, and is 
actively supported by Glenair. However, it should also be recognized that due to the structural and cultural changes 
required to achieve the goal of attracting a more balanced workforce, it may take many years to eradicate the 
gender pay gap. 

For our part we are committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and consistently, and that no 
employee is treated adversely due to gender, nationality, ethnicity or age. We will continue to promote internal 
progression within the company, and will ensure that this process is based solely on merit and ability, not gender or 
any other characteristic. Likewise, for external recruitment opportunities we will ensure those responsible for the 
recruiting process are suitably trained to ensure appointments are made solely on merit and ability, not gender or 
any other characteristic. 

