Gender Pay Gap Report 2017

PJH Group Limited is a distributor of bathrooms, kitchens and appliances, supplying 
customers throughout the UK, from large multi-site retailers to independent retailers 
and from builders merchants to house builders.

PJH is part of the Globe Union group of companies, with offices in 7 countries across 3 continents. We operate within 
multiple business functions and channels and employees are predominantly within our warehousing and distribution 
functions. Typical to similar industries our workforce mainly comprises of male employees.

At the heart of our business lies a culture that we believe working together is the key to success, this includes our people 
as well as our customers. The way we recognise and reward our people is part of that commitment, ensuring that all 
areas of the business are free from discrimination and that there is positive support for all of our employee groups.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Working together to 
create new ideas; in a happy,
productive environment. 

our customers

Supporting
to help strengthen
their business.    

Working together with our
Globe Union family to add
strength and
expertise.

Building
relationships
with our supply partners for
continued improvement.

we’re better

Females

Males

Gender Pay Gap

Median

Mean

Hourly Pay

Bonus Pay

-1.5%

50.0%

8.6%

67.7%

Number of Employees

144

394

The above table shows our overall mean and median gender pay gap at the snapshot date of 5th April 2017.

Women make up a smaller percentage of the workforce, which is normal in the warehousing and distribution industry. 
However the gap in hourly pay shows that our average gap is less than the national average.
Women feature largely in the mid-bands of pay for PJH, which is demonstrated by the negative median hourly pay gap.

Proportion Receiving a Bonus

43.8%

Female

Male

26.9%

Although women represent a smaller proportion of the workforce, a significant number of them are within roles that 
attract a bonus potential.

Females

Males

Pay Quartiles

90.0%

67.5%

45.0%

22.5%

0.0%

Lower Quartile

Upper Middle Quartile

The above charts illustrate the gender distribution across P.J.H. Group Limited in four equally sized quartiles.

The data shows a greater proportion of males in the lower quartile with females represented more evenly across the 
higher three quartiles.

Where men and women occupy equivalent jobs across the business, we are confident that they are rewarded equally via 
our employee bandings.

We confirm that the data reported is accurate.

Jason Shaw

CFO
On behalf of PJH Group Limited

