       We use cookies to track usage and preferences. I understand Cookies policy     This site will not render correctly without Javascript. Please enable Javascript in your browser settings.    Current Share Price: --  ( -- )    Site Preview Home About us Overview Our team Our values Corporate responsibility Advisers Investor Overview Results, reports and presentations Investor information Bond investor reporting Share price RNS announcements SPV announcements Retail bonds Wholesale corporate bond Media Overview Press releases Reports Blog Careers Contact us Equality and diversity People  Equality and diversity  Training and development  Employee involvement  Health and safety  Environment  Customer commitment  Supporting the community  ParagonGroup_CR_InvestorsPeople Visit the website ParagonGroup_CR_FTSE4Good Visit the website A diverse workforce  We are committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.  We invest in management training to ensure managers are equipped to support fair working practices and also in educating all employees to ensure the policy is fully embedded.  Our aim is that employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of:   Race, colour, nationality (including citizenship), ethnic or national origins  Gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status  Religious or political beliefs or affiliations  Disability, impairment or age  Real or suspected infection with HIV/AIDS; or  Membership of a trade union   and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.  Our aim is to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities and other under-represented groups are given full and fair consideration and that all employees have access to the same training, development and job opportunities.  We make every effort to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of flexible working to assist their return to work.  Women in Finance Charter and diversity targets  Paragon is a proud signatory of the Women in Finance Charter - a pledge for gender balance across the UK financial services sector.  Find out more  Gender Pay Gap Report 2017  The latest Paragon Banking Group Gender Pay Gap Report detailing the submission of Paragon Finance PLC under the relevant regulations.  Find out more  Privacy Cookies Security Regulatory status Site map Modern slavery statement Paragon Banking Group PLC.  Registered in England number 2336032.  Registered office 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands  B91 3QJ.  Loading Loading     Click here to see your activities  