Chrysalis Community Care Group Limited 
trading as Medacs Homecare

Part of

Gender Pay Gap Report

Introduction

We are investing in a range of 
initiatives to bring about change across 
Medacs Homecare and this report 
outlines more detail about what we 
are undertaking as part of a broader 
focus on creating a more inclusive 
workplace.

Nigel Marsh 
Chief Executive Officer, 
Medacs Global Group 

We welcome the opportunity to 
share gender pay gap information for 
Chrysalis Community Care Group, 
which trades as Medacs Homecare, as 
it will help us have more meaningful 
conversations with our people and 
our customers about equality, diversity 
and inclusion.

Medacs Homecare has an overall 
gender pay gap of 3.11%. Women  
are well represented in healthcare, 
and this is reflected in the gender 
make up of our workforce, where 
women make up the majority of all 
pay quartiles. 

We have made good progress with 
diversity and inclusion at Medacs 
Homecare, and understanding our 
gender pay gap drives us to do more.

I confirm the information  
and data reported is accurate as  
of the snapshot date 5 April 2017.

Julia Robertson  
Group CEO, Impellam Group Plc

2

Medacs Homecare Group Gender Pay Gap ReportUnderstanding  
the gender pay gap 

Gender pay vs. equal pay 
A gender pay gap shows the difference in average pay across all of 
the men and women in an organisation, industry or country as a 
whole. It can be driven by the differing number of men and women 
across all roles. 

It is not the same as an equal pay comparison which looks at how 
much men and women are paid for doing the same role. 

How we calculated  
our numbers
Under the UK Government’s new Gender Pay Gap regulation, 
companies need to report their gender pay gap for all legal entities  
in Great Britain with more than 250 employees. We have provided 
data on all of our permanent and temporary employees, as required 
by the regulation. 

Given we are a staffing business we have a very high number of 
temporary workers on our payrolls at any one time. This number 
fluctuates depending on requirements from our clients, and typically 
the rate of pay that our temporary workers receive is decided by  
our clients. We have also reported on our permanent employees 
only and our temporary employees only. 

Pay quartiles explained
A pay quartile is calculated by listing the hourly pay rates for 
everyone in the business then dividing them in to four equal-sized 
groups. We then work out the percentage of men and women in 
each group. 

Mean and median gaps explained
The figure used most regularly is the median gender pay gap.  
To help bring this to life, imagine all of the women at Medacs 
Homecare standing in one line, from lowest paid by hour to highest, 
and all of the men doing the same in another line. The median 
gender pay gap is the percentage difference in hourly pay between 
the woman in the middle of the line and the man in the middle of 
the line. Hourly pay includes leave and any shift premiums, but not 
overtime.

Lowest paid

Median

Highest paid

The mean gender pay gap is the percentage difference in the 
average pay of men and women. This is calculated by adding up all  
of the hourly pay rates for all of the women in a business and dividing 
it by the number of women, then doing the same for the men and 
comparing the difference. The mean can be affected by different 
numbers of men and women in different roles. This is why we also 
report the number of men and women in different pay quartiles. 

We also report the median and mean differences in bonus pay over 
a twelve month period, and the percentage of men and women who 
received a bonus. 

A positive percentage shows a gap in favour of men; a negative 
percentage shows a gap in favour of women. 

3

Medacs Homecare Group Gender Pay Gap ReportOur figures  
for 2017

All UK employees, including 
temporary and permanent

Pay - hourly rate
Median

3.11%

Mean

0.05%

Proportion of employees according to quartile bands

Male

Female

Did you know?
•   Medacs Homecare overall gender pay gap is 3.11%,  

lower than the national average of 18.8%. This is  
because we have more women than men at every  
level of our organisation.

Upper 
(highest 
paid)

Lower 
middle

14%

86%

7%

93%

Upper 
middle

Lower 
(lowest 
paid)

Bonus pay difference between men and women
Median

Mean

18%

82%

Permanent employees only

10%

90%

Median / mean hourly pay gap 
Median / mean bonus pay gap 
% males / females receiving a bonus payment 
Upper quartile (male / female %) 
Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower quartile (male / female %) 

-4.92 / -11.97%
10.00 / -126.50%
18.18 / 40.45%
8.33 / 91.67%
8.33 / 91.67%
8.33 / 91.67%
20.83 / 79.17%

48.87%

-11.70%

Percentage of males / females receiving a bonus payment

4%

18%

Male

Female

Care worker employees only

Median / mean hourly pay gap 
Median / mean bonus pay gap 
% males / females receiving a bonus payment 
Upper quartile (male / female %) 
Upper middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower middle quartile (male / female %) 
Lower quartile (male / female %) 

16.67 / 2.00%
48.87 / -11.70%
3.81 / 18.42%
14.49 / 85.51%
17.76 / 82.24%
6.54 / 93.46%
10.28 / 89.72%

4

Medacs Homecare Group Gender Pay Gap ReportHow we are building  
an inclusive business

We are committed to creating an inclusive and diverse business built on trust, and the following initiatives support our goals:

1.   We support a Diversity  

and Inclusion Network
 We participate actively in Impellam Group’s Diversity and 
Inclusion network which fosters an inclusive and diverse 
workforce by encouraging positive conversations that drive 
clear action.

 

 

2.   We are building a culture  

of Virtuosity
 We continue to invest in our Virtuoso programme which 
recognises that it is our managers who make the difference  
in building trust, relationships and better futures for our clients  
and our people. This focus on Virtuosity is central to our 
strategy and frees our managers from conventional thinking  
so they see new possibilities, enabling our people to realise  
their full potential and to thrive.

3.  We address unconscious bias 
 All our people have access to training via our online learning 
 
system to help them understand, identify and address 
unconscious bias.  We also offer this training to our customers 
as and when appropriate.

 

4.   We facilitate conversations 

around flexible working
 We are an inclusive business, and we encourage flexibility, 
including part-time work and home working.  We hold 
conversations with managers to explore whether personal 
ambitions are being met, as well as business objectives.  
By addressing the whole person, we will create a more  
engaged, productive workforce that allows our people  
to be their authentic selves at work.

5.  We support working parents
 We have introduced a clear wellbeing strategy across  
 
Medacs Healthcare to support working parents, incorporating 
flexible working hours, a maternity buddy system to support  
pre-maternity leave and reintegration into the company,  
and gender neutrality in all communications.

5

Medacs Homecare Group Gender Pay Gap ReportChrysalis Community Care Group Limited 
trading as Medacs Homecare

www.medacs.com

