MINDING OUR GAP 
REPORTING ON 
GENDER PAY

HI EVERYONE,

As you might know from our recent communications, it’s now a requirement for businesses with over 
250 employees to report their gender pay gap. And because we’re a business of over 400 people now, 
that means we’ve published ours too. Just a few things from me before we get to the data.

THIS IS A GREAT THING

As we say in our website article, closing the gender pay gap is not only the right thing to do; it’s also 
good for business. Research shows that a more diverse and inclusive workforce helps businesses by 
bringing in new skills, creativity and innovation. It leads to sounder decision-making and will help us 
keep our best people here.

WE’RE DOING SOME BRILLIANT THINGS

You’ll see in the commentary below that we’re doing some great things already. Our culture and flexible 
working mean CP is a great place to work for parents. From May, we’ll have an equal split of females 
and males on our Exec team. Our gender split at Director level is almost 50/50 and we have an even 
spread for those on course to be future partners. Read more on what we’re doing below.

WE NEVER REST ON OUR LAURELS

Although we’re doing some great things, it’s never been just about gender for us. It’s always been 
about the best person for the job. Full stop. We believe in equality and inclusion across all areas. 
Gender is part of this in addition to ethnicity and minority groups. So in the future, we’d like to do more 
work with our communities to ensure our workforce is as representative of those communities as 
possible. 

We talk a lot about the fact that it’s culture that drives our strategy and that with a great culture we can 
attract (and retain) the very BEST people. This will mean we provide a great client experience, which 
ultimately leads to business success. A great culture for us is one that is diverse, and the very BEST 
people don’t come in carbon copy, so equality in the workplace is very important to us. It’s why we put 
culture at the heart of everything we do. 

Lastly, it’s the differences that make us strong. So, everyone, dare to be different.

April Bembridge
People & Culture Director 

GENDER PAY GAP FIGURES

Women’s mean hourly rate is 7.6% lower than men’s
In other words when comparing mean hourly rates, women earn 92p for every  
£1 that men earn.

Women’s median hourly rate is 3.5% lower than men’s
In other words when comparing median hourly rates, women earn 96p for every 
£1 that men earn.

This data is from 5 April 2017, which is the reporting date set for this year’s gap.

Enhancing our data even more

We only had a legal obligation to report on our core business for Gender Pay 
Gap, but that doesn’t feel right to us. Transparency is one of the six cornerstones 
of our culture and so we’re enhancing our data to include our partners too. 

It was really important for us to hit our legal deadline for Gender Pay Gap 
reporting, so now we have that over the line we can work on our partner data and 
make sure we include that in the future too.

EQUAL PAY VS GENDER PAY GAP

First, let’s cover this common misconception: Gender Pay Gap is not the same as 
Equal Pay.

Equal Pay is a legal requirement to pay people who are doing the same or 
similar work, the same amount of money. Our report isn’t saying that women are 
paid less than their male counterparts in the same role or a role of equivalent 
responsibility and accountability. We have zero tolerance to unequal pay.

Therefore, Gender Pay Gap focusses much more on opportunities, and asks the 
questions: why are men in those higher paid positions?
 
SO, WHY DOES THE GAP EXIST?
 
The main reason for the gap is because we have a larger number of women 
working in team member positions than men. This is despite having a close to 
equal amount of men and women working in the higher paid positions and lower 
paid positions.

This middle group of people, where there are roughly 60% of women and 40% 
men, means there’s a gender pay gap. This also means that, because of people’s 
roles and how the percentage calculation works, a greater percentage of men 
receive a bonus pay.

Proportion of women in each pay quartile:
Top quartile (highest paid)

Women

Men

48.2%
Upper middle quartile

61.6%
Lower middle quartile

61.2%
Lower quartile (lowest paid)

48.8%
A further breakdown

On the reporting date, 5 April 2017, women and men occupied these positions:

 

 
 
Team Member   
Manager  
 
Senior Manager  
Director 
 
Partner   
 

Women 
57%  
 
 
55%  
62%  
 
35%       
21%       

 
 
 
 
 
 

Men
43%
45%
38%
65%
79%

12 months on, these figures are a little different. Read more on what we’ve been 
up to below.

HOW DID WE GATHER THE DATA?

Calculating the data involved the complicated task of working out everyone’s 
hourly pay. To help us accurately export the data, we used our HR system, 
Cascade. It has a built in Gender Pay Gap tool.

WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING ALREADY?

EQUAL LEADERSHIP

WE DON’T DISCRIMINATE

We’ve a 50/50 split of male and female directors across the business. Our 
Executive is also soon to be three men, three women. We’ve also an equal split of 
men and women on course to be future partners.

It’s not about paying women more or hiring women in higher positions either. 
Because then we’d be discriminating against men. We don’t believe in 
discrimination in any shape or form.

Therefore, when it comes to the hiring process, we hire completely on merit. 
And, to remove the possibility any unconscious biases, we have a robust hiring 
process. This includes cross-team interviewing, strengths-based questions and 
really focusing on the CP values.

WE CHAMPION WOMEN LEADERS
 
As well as having women in our leadership team, we also fly the flag for female 
leaders in business. Having launched CP Talks at the end of last year, we’ve 
already hosted entrepreneur and TV star, Jenny Campbell, and will no doubt have 
more female leaders joining us in the future.

SUPPORTING ‘MAKING LIFE COUNT’ 

A big part of equal opportunities is how businesses support equal parenting, 
making it possible for men or women to return after paternity/maternity leave into 
the same positions, on the same pay, with the same opportunities to progress. 

This is often made more achievable through flexible and agile working, maternity 
and paternity arrangements. However, we’ve gone a step further than this, and 
our policies support lots of other areas in life. So, be it parenting responsibilities, 
caring for a relative or other responsibilities, we’ve got it covered:

● Flexible working – we’ve never turned down a part-time working request. 
   And on the reporting date, there were 42 people working part-time, which is a 
   high percentage for a professional services firm. The split of part time workers is 
   across different roles and ranges from partner and director level to  
   team member.

● Agile working helps too – people don’t have to sit at a desk or be in the office 
   every day, which makes managing commitments outside of work so  
   much easier.

● Leaders show the way – we’ve lots of people, including leaders, who leave 
   the office early to fulfil their parenting responsibilities. Leaders role model 
   working flexibly to make life count.

● We hire people working part-time – some of our greatest superstars are part 
   time workers. We never close our minds to the possibility of someone joining 
   us on a part time basis. We’d rather get the best person for the job and then 
   drive the greatest outputs rather than concern ourselves with hours worked. And 
   this includes senior hires too, many of which, have joined the business on a 
   part-time basis.

HOW DOES IT FEEL AT CP?

THINKING AHEAD

We think it’s much more powerful to hear from some truly inspirational women in 
our own business. So here are Katie Warrington and Sally Spencer talking about 
how it feels to be a woman working at CP, how it compares to elsewhere and how 
they’ve found our approach to flexible working.

We’ll be reporting this every year from now on. To show our commitment to 
closing our gap, here are some targets we’ll be working towards: 

By 2020 – we’re looking to reduce the gap to 5% 

By 2025 – we’re looking to reduce the gap to 2.5%

Katie - on moving from the  
Big 4 to CP - CLICK TO VIEW

WHAT’S TO COME?

 

Sally - being a Mum at CP -  
CLICK TO VIEW

And here’s a few lines from auditor, Nick Pogson, who’s recently opted to take 
Shared Parental Leave. Having already taken the standard two weeks of paternity 
leave, Nick will take a further three months unpaid leave later this year. Here’s 
what Nick had to say:
“
     My line manager was enthusiastic about the decision,  
and agreed it was an opportunity not to be missed out on.  
As a parent herself, she thought it was a great idea, and  
was fully supportive of the choice I’d made.

“My return to work date has already been agreed with HR, and there are jobs on 
my schedule for next year already. Overall it’s been great to be able to make use 
of the Shared Parental policy, and has given me a chance to spend time with my 
“
first child that I probably wouldn’t have had the chance to do a few years ago!

● A new maternity/paternity package – we’re launching this in the new 
   financial year.

● Busy Bee parents group – leadership coach, Sarah Johnston, will soon be 
   running group sessions for working parents. This will be accessible to all of our 
   superheroes working hard to balance work and family life.

● Progressing to Partner – we’re going to be working on a more robust process 
   around pre-assessment. This means everyone will have the same opportunities 
   for progression.

To see all our statistics, as well as the figures from other businesses, visit 
the government website here.

If you have any questions, please get in touch with People & Culture 
Director, April Bembridge.

