Scottish SPCA
Gender Pay Gap Report 

What is the gender pay gap?
The gender pay gap is the difference in average earnings between men and women 
irrespective of the position held. It gives us information about the representation of men and 
women across the Society. It is not the same as ‘equal pay’, which looks at the difference in 
earnings for men and women performing equal, comparable work.

This report has been prepared in line with the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) 
Regulations 2017. Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more 
employees to publish statutory calculations every year showing how large the pay gap is 
between their male and female employees. 

The snapshot date for information was taken at 5 April 2017. At that time, 354 employees - 
278 women and 76 men - were classified as “full-pay relevant employees” and were used in 
the reporting of hourly pay gap statistics.

Our Gender Pay Gap Data
Mean gender pay gap in hourly pay

Median gender pay gap in hourly pay

Women’s earnings are:
25.7% lower
20.0% lower

There are a few reasons for this:
The gap is as a direct result of our gender representation – our workforce is predominantly 
female with women making up 78.5% of our staff.

There are a higher proportion of women in every quartile including the upper quartile. This 
illustrates that the overall pay gap is a result of the low proportion of men in more junior roles.

176 employees are employed in the two lower pay quartiles. Of that figure, 89% are women.

There are a greater proportion of men in the upper pay quartile compared with lower pay 
quartiles.

There are a greater proportion of women in the lower pay quartiles compared with the upper 
pay quartiles.

Quartile pay analysis
Quartiles divide the employee population into four equal groups. They are calculated by 
arranging all the hourly rates in a line from the lowest to the highest. Below, quartile 1 
represents the lower hourly rates and quartile 4, the higher hourly rates.

Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile (%)

women

men

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

10.2%

11.4%

23.6%

40.4%

89.8%

88.6%

76.4%

59.6%

Number of men 
and women 
in each pay 
quartile

women

men

Lower

Lower Middle

Upper Middle

Upper

79

78

68

53

9

10

21

36

Introduce an analytical job evaluation scheme and implement a pay and grading system. 

What steps are we taking?
Given that the Scottish SPCA is committed to the principles of equality in the workplace and 
to paying men and women in similar jobs equally, what more will we do to ensure that we 
address the gender pay gap?
1. 
This will provide consistent and transparent data on our organisation’s structures and job roles 
and assurance that the Society pays men and women equally for doing equivalent work. 
2. 
the best candidate for the role regardless of gender or other factors and we will aim to attract 
candidates from a diverse range of backgrounds. 
3. 
Although we are seeing a trend in increasing numbers of women in higher quartiles, we 
will explore how we can attract more men into our organisation in order to create a more even 
gender balance at every level of the Society.
4. 
to the principles of equality in the workplace.

We remain committed through our equal opportunities policy and procedure to appointing 

As an organisation, we will continue to monitor our gender pay gap and remain dedicated 

I confirm that our data has been calculated according to the requirements of the Equality Act 
2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017.

Kirsteen Campbell, Chief Executive

