COSWORTH LIMITED
GENDER PAY GAP REPORT
February 2018 

Mission Statement 
Cosworth is dedicated to encouraging a supportive and inclusive culture amongst the whole 
workforce. We are committed to promoting diversity and equality in the workplace. Our 
aim is to ensure that all employees and job applicants are given equal opportunity and that 
our  employees  are  representative  of  all  sections  of  society.  Candidates  are  selected  for 
employment, promotion, training and other benefits based on aptitude and ability. We are 
opposed to all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination.  

Gender Pay Gap Reporting 
Cosworth welcomes the requirement, mandated by the 
UK  Government,  for  companies  with  more  than  250 
employees to submit annual gender pay gap figures. The 
legislation  reinforces  Cosworth’s  own  internal  initiatives 
to provide equality and fairness to all employees. 

  Median Gender Pay Gap 

  Mean Gender Pay Gap  

21.35%

24.17%

Cosworth  acknowledges  that  the  pay  gap  between  its 
male and female employees, at 21.35%, is slightly above 
the national average of 18.1% (Office of National Statistics 
2016).  This  figure  represents  the  average  hourly  rate 
across  all  employees  irrespective  of  role  and  seniority 
within the business. Cosworth enforces equal pay within 
its organisation for males and females in the same role. 

Pay Quartiles

Top  
Quartile

Upper 
Middle

Lower 
Middle

Lower 
Quartile 

Male 
92.19%
Female 
7.81%

Male 
88.89%
Female 
11.11%

Male 
95.31%
Female 
4.69%

Male 
96.83%
Female 
3.17%

Staff  gender  ratios  follow  a  similar  pattern  across  all 
quartiles, underscoring this as a company-wide, industry-
influenced  issue.  The  average  gender  pay  gap  would 
be improved by having more females in all areas of the 
business, but specifically in senior engineering roles. 

Bonus Pay 
  Median Bonus Gender Pay Gap 

  Mean Bonus Gender Pay Gap  

The percentage of 
male employees 
receiving a bonus 
was 1.37%. 

100%

100%

The percentage of 
female employees 
was zero. 

Cosworth’s commitment 
Cosworth is dedicated to driving down its gender pay gap. In order to do this, 
the company will actively support initiatives that tackle the wider industry issues 
related to the lack of females in engineering roles.
Cosworth  has  a  male  dominant  workforce  with  93.29%  male  versus  6.71% 
female. A 2017 survey by the Institute of Engineering and Technology reported 
that 11% of the engineering workforce nationwide is female. While representing 
an improvement compared to previous years, it still represents an important 
issue that Cosworth feels empowered to address.
Changing  the  employment  ratio  is  about  finding  the  right  people  with  the 
correct  experience  and  capability.  This  happens  over  a  long  period  of  time, 
and requires a concerted effort from multiple parties – companies, industries, 
educational institutes and the government. Cosworth is keen to play its part. 

93.29%.  

of the workforce 

is male. 

6.71%.  

of the workforce 

is female. 

Cosworth’s actions and affiliations 
Cosworth pledges to enhance its existing work with local 
educational organisations to promote the study of STEM 
subjects  to  upper  primary  and  early  secondary  school 
students,  to  highlight  employment  opportunities  across 
the business, particularly to females. 

The company has already 
increased the number of females 
on its apprenticeship scheme 
with 20% of current apprentices 
represented by females. 

Cosworth will take action to promote its apprenticeship 
opportunities  to  more  young  people,  with  a  focus  on 
encouraging suitable females to apply for such positions. 

Cosworth’s current affiliations and  
activities include:
Northampton College
•  Where our apprentices study and for whom we offer 
dedicated  experiences  at  our  Northampton  based 
powertrain facility.

University of Northampton
•  We have previously welcomed students on placement 
within  the  organisation  but  seek  to  engage  in  other 
activities.

Northants Engineering Training Partnership 
•  A partnership of engineering companies working with 
the University of Northampton that exists to create a 
pool of industry ready engineers of the highest calibre.

Work Experience
•  Cosworth  has  placed  male  and  female  students 
including  Silverstone  UTC, 

from  the 
Northamptonshire schools and other referrals.  

local  area, 

Plans for 2018
•  Cosworth intends to run a ‘day of engineering’ at its Northampton facility in 
2018 to bring together all of its objectives in the area of encouraging STEM 
studies for both male and female students, with a specific element of this 
event dedicated to promoting engineering opportunities to young females.

I hereby confirm that the data reported 
in this report is accurate:

Hal Reisiger 
Cosworth CEO  |  Date: February 2018

