 

 
 
Dimensions gender pay gap report 2017 
 
Dimensions (UK) Ltd is one of the largest not for profit providers of social care for people 
with a learning disability or autism in Britain and we are pleased to publish our annual 
gender pay gap report. This measures the difference between average female earnings 
compared to average male earnings regardless of roles. This is different from ‘Equal Pay’ 
which is an organisation’s legal obligation to ensure that men and women are paid the 
same for doing the same or similar roles.   
 
As required, the report provides a snapshot of the situation on 5th April 2017: 
 
Mean gender pay gap 
Median gender pay gap 
Mean bonus gender pay gap 
Median bonus gender pay gap 
 
Proportion of male employees who receive a bonus* 
Proportion of female employees who receive a bonus* 

2% (women lower) 
0% (no gap) 
0.07% (women lower) 
0% (no gap) 

55% 
54% 

 

* These figures relate entirely to one-off payments for either long service or achievement of qualifications. 
 
 
Pay quartiles by gender: 
 

 

  

  
  Lower middle quartile      Upper middle quartile 

  
      Lower quartile 
 
These figures have been reached using the mechanisms that are set out in the gender pay 
gap reporting legislation. 

Upper quartile 

 

  

  

Our statement 
 
We are very pleased that the data shows that there is almost no gender pay gap at 
Dimensions. We believe that these results are due in no small part to our genuine and 
proactive commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.  
 
A core principle of our remuneration strategy is that it is open and transparent. We fix pay 
at the appropriate level of relevant salary markets to recruit and retain the calibre of 
people needed to carry out the roles in an increasingly complex sector, where this is 
affordable. While this does mean that certain roles are remunerated at higher rates than 
others, for market reasons, we are pleased that this is not an issue in the context of our 
gender pay gap. We have a high proportion of women in senior roles (in the upper or 
upper middle quartiles) which is equal to or higher than the overall gender distribution, 
and this is one key reason why we have a very low overall gender pay gap. 
 
The gender pay gap at Dimensions compares very favourably with the national average 
across all sectors and with typical levels within our sector. The national (ONS) gender pay 
gap for all employees is 18.1% and, even though this is the lowest since records began, it is 
far higher than at Dimensions. Within our sector, figures published on the government’s 
reporting website indicate that there is an 8% median gender pay on average for care 
sector organisations which have published their figures to date. It is seen, therefore, that 
Dimensions is doing significantly better than the sector generally. 
 
This is due to a number of factors, and some tangible examples of our commitment to 
being an employer genuinely committed to equality of opportunity and inclusion include: 
 
•  A competency and values based approach to recruitment, ensuring that all 

appointments and internal promotions are made solely on the basis of merit. 
 

•  An open and transparent approach regarding pay, including in relations with the 

recognised union UNISON. 

 
•  An award-winning career development programme (Aspire) which supports all 

individuals to achieve their potential, regardless of gender and other demographic 
variables. 

 
•  A wide range of flexible working options available to all employees. 

 

•  Mandatory training in equality and diversity, including in unconscious bias, for all 

managers and staff. 

 

•  The appointment of a national Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Manager. 
 
•  An active and committed national equality and diversity colleague group, and an 
expectation that equality and diversity will be a standing item on employee team 
meeting agendas. 

 
Dimensions has been acknowledged as an equal opportunities employer committed to 
equality and inclusion at all levels – such as by being a finalist in the Large Business of the 
Year category at 2018’s National Centre for Diversity Grand Awards. 
 
It should also be emphasised that, although we are pleased with these positive results, we 
will not become complacent and will continually review our performance to ensure that 
Dimensions is a truly inclusive employer with equal opportunities for all. 
 
 
I confirm that the information in this statement is accurate. 
 

 

Steve Scown 
Chief Executive 
February 2018 

